Tu te reconnaîtras
"Tu te reconnaîtras" ("You'll Recognize Yourself"), sung in French by French singer Anne-Marie David representing Luxembourg, was the winning song at the Eurovision Song Contest 1973 – on one of the rare occasions when a country has won the contest two years in succession. Vicky Leandros had won the 1972 Contest for Luxembourg with "Après toi" and the 1973 edition was consequently held in the Luxembourgish capital. Performed eleventh on the night – after Italy's Massimo Ranieri with "Chi sarà con te" and before Sweden's Nova with "You're Summer" – it was awarded a total of 129 points, placing it first in a field of 17.
Spain's "Eres Tú" performed by Mocedades finished second and Cliff Richard's "Power to All Our Friends" third, both songs would go on to become major hit singles in 1973 - in the case of "Eres Tú" worldwide - and are today both widely considered Eurovision classics. The voting was also a very close one, Luxembourg won with 129 points, with Spain finishing only 4 points behind and Cliff Richard another 2 points after.
David recorded her winning entry in five languages; French, English ("Wonderful Dream"), German (as "Du bist da"), Spanish ("Te reconocerás") and - very unusually - in two entirely different Italian translations, entitled "Il letto del re" ("The King's Bed") and "Non si vive di paura" ("You Can't Live By Fear") respectively.
In 1973 Turkish pop singer Nilüfer Yumlu brought out a Turkish-language version of the song, entitled "Göreceksin Kendini". The song held great success in Turkish Pop-Music audience.
It was succeeded as Luxembourg's entry in the 1974 Contest by "Bye Bye, I Love You", performed by Ireen Sheer.
Anne Marie David is one of the very few Eurovision winners to return to the Contest; in 1979 she represented her native France singing the song "Je suis l'enfant soleil" in Jerusalem and finished in third place after Israel's "Hallelujah" and Spain's "Su canción". David was also one of the artists participating in the "Congratulations" special in October 2005.
