Mari Petroleum Company Limited
Mari Petroleum Company Limited (formerly, Mari Gas Company Limited) is one of Pakistan’s largest E&P (petroleum exploration and production) companies, operating the Country’s 2nd largest gas reservoir at Mari Field, District Ghotki, Sindh. The Shares of the Company are quoted on all the Stock Exchanges of Pakistan. The Company is primarily engaged in Exploration, Development and Production of hydrocarbon potentials (Natural gas, Crude oil, Condensate & LPG) in the Country.
History.
In 1957, when the Company was operating as Esso Eastern Inc., Mari Gas Field was discovered in Daharki, Sindh, Pakistan with original gas in place (GIIP) estimate of 2.38 TCF. Over the years with the phased development of the Field and the subsequent reservoir evaluations, the GIIP of the Field enhanced to 10.751TCF, thus making Mari one of the largest gas field in Pakistan in terms of balance reserves.
In May 1983, Fauji Foundation, a major Pakistani group, along with OGDCL and GoP acquired the entire business operations of Esso Eastern Inc. in Pakistan which comprised the Mari Gas Field.
During December 1984, the business was reorganized and incorporated as Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL) which took over the assets, liabilities and operational control of Mari Gas Field.
MPCL primarily operated as a production company till 1997, developing the discovered Habib Rahi Reservoir in phases for supply of gas to the new fertilizer plants. Simultaneous with these development phases, the Company also pursued appraisal activities within its Mari D&P Lease by drilling stepout wells to determine the boundaries of Habib Rahi Reservoir.
The hallmark of MPCL’s growth and expansion is also represented by its entry into exploration activities in 2001.
Distinctions.
The Company has the highest well success ratio 1:1.44 (69.23%) as compared to
other companies 1:3.3 (30.1%). MPCL is the most cost effective Company as compared to other E&P companies in Pakistan. Company’s operating expenses are 7-8% of its gross sales while other companies have over 21% of their gross sales.
Exploration.
MPCL started extensive geological and geophysical exploration in 2001, often in partnerships with local and international exploration & production companies to tap indigenous hydrocarbon resources of the Country.
MPCL’s success ratio in 2013-14 was 100 percent as MPCL drilled five oil/gas wells and all were successful which resulted in the significant increase in the company's oil/gas production. A few months ago MPCL share prices were trading at around Rs 174 per share, which now is trading at Rs 560 per share.
MPCL's success ratio is 1:1.4 which is high compared to other E&P companies with an average of 1:4; internationally the ratio is 1:8. About 78 percent of MPCL's gas production is dedicated to fertiliser plants and the company is playing a very critical role in the growth of the agriculture sector. MPCL is supplying 12 percent of its gas to power houses while the rest is being supplied to other sectors. Currently, MPCL is working in 17 oil/gas blocks of which 11 blocks are entirely being explored by MPCL while in other 6 blocks MPCL is a joint partner.
Production.
Following is the average daily production from various fields:
Reserves.
The remaining recoverable reserves of MPCL operated blocks stood more than 4.26 Trillion Cubic Feet of gas as of February 29, 2012.
Research and development.
MPCL is the first Oil & Gas Company in Pakistan which has dedicated substantial funds for a number of Research & Development activities in exploration, production, health, safety and environment (HSE). Following are the projects initially undertaken for Research & Development:
Discoveries.
Oil Discovery in Karak Block, Punjab Province.
Mari Petroleum Company Limited has made a significant Crude Oil discovery with the additional potential of Associated Gas, during the drilling of Halini Well (near the village Kamar Sar, Tehsil Essa Kheil) in its operated Karak Exploration Block. The Block is located at the boundaries of KPK and Punjab Provinces (between the districts of Karak and Mianwali). The discovery is estimated to accrue huge foreign exchange savings which could range in billion of dollars at the current oil price trend and thus contribute towards the nation’s endeavor to reduce dependence on imported energy.
The Halini Well was spud on January 7, 2011. The well has been drilled upto a depth of 5,350 meters. During the initial short duration tests carried out, the well flowed at the average rate of 1,700 barrels/day Crude Oil of API gravity 26 at 32/64” choke size.
Gas discovered in Sujawal Block, Sindh Province.
Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL) has made a gas/ condensate discovery at Sujawal X-1 in the Sujawal Block located in Sindh Province. This success of the Sujawal X-1 will be an addition to the indigenous reserve base of the nation, which would ultimately result in saving of foreign exchange. The first exploratory well in the block was spud-in on February 6, 2010 and was drilled down to a depth of 3,000 meters in Lower Goru Formation of Cretaceous age.
Based on the wire-line logs, drilling data and geological information, the well resulted in a gas/condensate discovery in Lower Goru Sands (Upper Sands). The discovered gas is of very good quality having a heating value of 1024 BTU/Ft3 and its condensate API gravity is 54.7 @ 600F.
Discovery in the Sukkur Block, Sindh Province.
Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL) made a gas discovery at Koonj Well#1A in the Sukkur Block located in Sindh Province. This momentous success would add to the indigenous resources of the nation's gas reserves base.
Discovery in Mari D&P Lease Area, Sindh Province.
During the year 2005 MPCL drilled an exploratory SML Well#1 and discovered gas at multiple reservoirs that include Sui Main (SML), Sui Upper (SUL) and Pirkoh Limestones. The well was spud-in on February 16, 2005 and drilled down to a depth of 1,268 meters. It was the first ever success at Pirkoh Limestone reservoir level in the country.
Oil and Gas Discoveries in Ziarat Block, Baluchistan Province.
Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL) landmark accomplishments include being the pioneer and the first Company to discover Oil in Balochistan Province.
In the year 2005, highly progressive and proactive exploration approach resulted in achieving a milestone for the Company with the discovery of good quality gas at its first exploratory well Ziarat Well#1, located to the north east of Quetta city. The well was drilled down to the depth of 1050m and encountered gas in Dunghan Limestone of Paleocene age.
Listing.
The Company is listed in Pakistan at all the three Stock Exchanges namely Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE), Lahore Stock Exchange (LSE) and Islamabad Stock Exchange (ISE).
Launch of international operations.
Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL) is set to launch international operations in collaboration with international oil & gas exploration companies. The company increased local gas production by 61 Million Cubic Feet per Day (mmcfd) taking it from 584 mmcfd in 2013 to 645 mmcfd in 2014.
MPCL is looking to explore opportunities to work in Central Asian countries in collaboration with Hungarian oil/gas exploration/production company MOL and Malaysian Petronas on joint venture basis.
Corporate Social Responsibility.
In order to contribute to the well being and quality of life of workforce, local community and society at large, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment of business for Mari Petroleum Company Limited (MPCL). CSR remains an ever evolving and never-ending process at the core of MPCL management.
Mari Petroleum Company will give Balochistan province $500,000 as bonus under social welfare obligation for development of local communities. From the Zarghoon exploration block in Quetta district, MPCL is currently producing 22 to 25 million standard cubic feet per day of natural gas. Zarghoon plant was inaugurated on 14 Aug 2014.
