Feridun Düzağaç
Feridun Düzağaç (born 10 October 1968) is a Turkish rock music singer and songwriter, usually known for his pessimistic and melancholic songs.
Music career.
Early career.
Feridun Düzağaç started his music career by forming a band called "TINI" ("TONE") in Mersin while studying in university. This band was formed in 1988 and Feridun Düzağaç was the vocalist of this band consisting five musicians. Other members of the band were Feridun Düzağaç's schoolmates. The first song that Feridun Düzağaç wrote was "Lavinia" which was a poem originally written by famous Turkish poet Özdemir Asaf. In 1990, Feridun Düzağaç and his 13 schoolmates wrote a book called "İlk Rüzgar" ("The First Wind") which contained many poems. In 1992, he graduated from the university. In November 1994, he released a demo album called "Öğrenci İndirimi" ("Student Discount") which contained songs that he performed when he was studying in university.
Professional career.
In January 1997, he released his debut official album called "Beni Rahatta Dinleyin" ("Listen to Me in Comfort"). This album contained songs that he wrote when he was bearing arms. He released his second official album called "Köprüden Önce Son Çıkış" ("The Last Exit Before the Bridge") in July 1998.
In 2000, he participated in a compilation album called "Bülent Ortaçgil'e Saygı" ("In Honour of Bülent Ortaçgil") by performing a song called "Sevgi" ("Love"). He released "© Tüm Hakları Yalnızlığıma Aittir" ("© All Rights Reserved to My Loneliness") album in May 2001 and "Orjinal - Alt Yazılı" ("Original - Subtitled") album in 2003. The second one was the most successful album in his career. In August 2004 he released "Uzun Uzun Feridun Düzağaç" ("Long Long Feridun Düzağaç") album which mostly contained concert performances. Through 2004 Feridun Düzağaç appeared in hundreds of concerts.
On 4 January 2006, Feridun Düzağaç released "Bir Devam Filmi/Siyah Beyaz Türkçe Dublaj" ("A Sequel Film/Black and White Turkish Dubbing") album. On 22 January 2008, he released his sixth album called "Uykusuza Masallar" ("Tales for Sleepless People"). This album was more optimistic in contrast his previous albums. Feridun Düzağaç released his last album called "FD7" in March 2010.
Discography.
Feridun Düzağaç released a demo release, seven original releases and a live release in his career.
Öğrenci İndirimi.
"Öğrenci İndirimi" means "Student Discount" in English. This album is a demo album and released in November 1994. This demo album includes only two songs. This album belongs to "TINI" band, not only Feridun Düzağaç.
Beni Rahatta Dinleyin.
"Beni Rahatta Dinleyin" means "Listen to Me at Ease" in English. (This is a reference to a military command. If your superior talks to you, you have to be at "Attention" position. But your superior may command you "listen to me at ease!" which means you still must listen to him but remain "at ease" position.) This album is the debut album of Feridun Düzağaç and released in January 1997. "Lavinia" is written by Özdemir Asaf, "Adı Sevda" is composed by Hakan Erken. "Hoptirinom" is a 3 Hürel song (written and composed by Feridun Hürel) covered by Feridun Düzağaç in this album. Other 9 songs are both written and composed by Feridun Düzağaç.
Köprüden Önce Son Çıkış.
"Köprüden Önce Son Çıkış" means "The Last Exit Before the Bridge" in English. This album is second album of Feridun Düzağaç and released in July 1998.
© Tüm Hakları Yalnızlığıma Aittir.
"© Tüm Hakları Yalnızlığıma Aittir" means "© All Rights Reserved to My Loneliness" in English. This album is third album of Feridun Düzağaç and released in May 2001.
Orjinal - Alt Yazılı.
"Orjinal - Alt Yazılı" means "Original - Subtitled" in English. This album is the fourth album of Feridun Düzağaç and released in 2003.
9 songs are written and composed by Feridun Düzağaç. "Düşler Sokağı" is an Ezginin Günlüğü song (written by Hüsnü Arkan and composed by Nadir Göktürk), which Feridun Düzağaç covered. "Mavi Tekme" is written, composed and performed by guest artist Gökhan Dabak. This is the only song in Feridun Düzağaç discography which Feridun Düzağaç isn't involved at all.
Uzun Uzun Feridun Düzağaç.
"Uzun Uzun Feridun Düzağaç" means "Long Long Feridun Düzağaç" in English. This album is the only album which could be labeled as live album among Feridun Düzağaç albums (for now). "Rüzgar" is the only song which is original. All of the other songs are live versions of songs that already exist in previous albums. This album released in August 2004 and consists of two discs.
Bir Devam Filmi/Siyah Beyaz Türkçe Dublaj.
"Bir Devam Filmi/Siyah Beyaz Türkçe Dublaj" means "A Sequel Film/Black and White Turkish Dubbing" in English. This album is fifth album of Feridun Düzağaç and released on 4 January 2006. All songs are written and 10 songs are composed by Feridun Düzağaç. Only "Ağlamıyorum" is composed by Ayhan Orhuntaş. 
Uykusuza Masallar.
"Uykusuza Masallar" means "Tales for the Sleepless" in English. This album is sixth album of Feridun Düzağaç and released on 22 January 2008. All songs are written and composed by Feridun Düzağaç.
FD7.
This album is seventh and last (for now) album of Feridun Düzağaç and released in March 2010. All song are written and composed by Feridun Düzağaç.
Cinema/TV career.
Feridun Düzağaç is not a professional actor. But he acted in several movies and TV series.
"* A minor role and for only one episode."
Private life.
In January 1995 Feridun Düzağaç married Sevgi Güryay. In December 1995 his father died. On 2 November 1999, Feridun Düzağaç's baby "Tuya Naz" was born.
