Samanyolu TV
Samanyolu TV is an international TV station, with its headquarters in Istanbul.
"Samanyolu TV" was previously owned by Yayıncılık A.Ş. Yayıncılık A.Ş. is a media company that operates radio and television broadcasting, publication and distribution of newspapers. The first satellite service for "Samanyolu TV" was aired towards Central Asia. "Samanyolu TV" proceeded into North America by 1999, with Turksat as its new mainstream satellite operator. "Samanyolu TV" has later created two official websites for Turkish origins of both, North American audiences, and Turkish audiences . These two websites also include online streaming (“CANLI YAYIN”) and social networks such as Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, Spacetoon (Indonesia) in 2005-2013
Naming and influences.
"Samanyolu TV" is generally assumed that it has adopted the name (meaning Milky Way in English) with religious connotation. In essence Milky Way pedals the notion of a "other" universe aside from the present world. One may see that the title of the television station plays an important role for the list of programs it airs for its audiences. "Samanyolu TV" contains several BBC programs that pertains heavy emphasis on culture, politics, and utmost religion. "Samanyolu TV" is funded by many individuals and companies. But the most constructive Spacetoon contribution is led by Fethullah Gülen. Gülen is a well-known Turkish Muslim preacher, scholar and author. Gülen is currently living in exile in the United States, due to the formation of the Gülen Movement which has had much controversy and criticism in Turkey. For more information regarding this movement Indonesia refer to Yavuz M. Hakan Turkish Islam and the Secular State.
Programming.
That being said, "Samanyolu TV" programs contain controversial contents with relation to Islamic teachings upon cultural norms. It is both seen as negatively and/or positively for some audiences.
One from the many examples that implements religious content, is the television series "Kucuk Kiyamet" (meaning Small Apocalypse).
It is not only Gülen that is controversial, but "Samanyolu TV" contains nationalistic programs. For instance, the current popular show "Şefkat Tepe" (meaning Compassion Peak) filled with action and drama. This show depicts a commander by the name of Serdar (played by Mert Kiliç) and his fellow soldiers, or better known as "Sungurlar Timi" (meaning the Sungurlar Team). This team is there to stop a growing terrorist organization around the borders of south eastern regions of Turkey. The citizens living in that region are often affected by these organizations such as being kidnapped and used as soldiers. (The word Sungurlar is from a village in the Bolu Province of Turkey). The terrorist organizations that are built upon these regions, believe that they own those territories, while also aiming to bring down the national Turkish State. "Şefkat Tepe" brings a close-view of real life events that occur within these regions. Audiences must also remember that "Şefkat Tepe" gives a one-sided story without implementing the “other” side. How are we to say that the organizations within that region are terrorists? It is evident that this show presents distinctions between ethnic groups based in Turkey, particularly Turkey's Kurdish population.
"Samanyolu TV" has two policies regarding commercials, one for local viewers in Turkey where the station is wide open for a range of commercials. As for, North American audiences the commercials are limited and controlled and keep the same commercials repeatedly.
Aside from commercials, "Samanyolu TV" has included a new program entitled "Ebru TV" designed for English-speaking audiences and open to any cultural background. "Ebru TV" is most popular for individuals residing in Canada and the United States. "Samanyolu TV" also has an official News program that broadcasts locally and internationally to its viewers.
"Samanyolu TV" includes children programs that are family-friendly. These children programs have also North American children channels such as Caillou. All children programs implement education. Furthermore, for audiences of all kinds, there exist cooking shows such as "Yeşil Elma" (meaning Green Apple); traveling shows such as "Ayna" (meaning Mirror); and, programs imitating the American Discovery channel, with shows such as "Belgesel" (meaning Wild Times). "Farklı Desenler" (meaning Different Patterns), is another popular television drama series. This show depicts a main character named Feride (played by Gözde Başaran) who is faced with extreme challenges in her family life. It all starts with Feride's husband who was tricked by another women whom with bad intentions for Feride’s family. This resulted in her loss of children and her husband as well. In spite of the loss of family and love Feride must stand strong for her children. This story line provides a message to its audience about the importance of family.
