Murat Boz
Murat Boz is a Turkish pop singer. He was born on March 7, 1980 in Karadeniz Ereğli, Turkey, and currently resides in Istanbul. He is also judge in Tv Show Yetenek Sizsiniz Türkiye ( Turkish version of the show "Got Talent").
Biography.
Early life.
Murat Boz completed his primary and secondary education in Karadeniz Persembe, Ordu. In 1995 and 1996, he attended a fine art oriented high school in İstanbul. At the time, he pursued his musical career at various music halls as a backing vocalist.
Musical career.
Boz first entered the Turkish music scene in 2004, when he featured in Nil Karaibrahimgil's music video "Bronzlaşmak". A year later he featured on the single Yalan, which was released by Turkish girl group Hepsi.
2006-2007: Aşkı Bulamam Ben & Maximum.
It wasn't until the summer of 2006 when Boz released his first single "Aşkı Bulamam Ben", on which he worked with Nil Karaibrahimgil once again. his follow-up single "Maximum" earned him his first number one single on the Billboard Turkey chart. His debut album that was released some time after, also titled "Maximum", proved to be a great success as well, propelling him even further in the Turkish music scene. All his releases were made under Stardium label. The third single "Püf" was a moderate success.
Some of the other names Boz has worked with include Tarkan, Ajda Pekkan, Shakira, Nilüfer, Nazan Öncel, and Hande Yener. Boz has also appeared in various commercials, such as McDonald's, "İstikbal" and Cola Turka.
2008-2009: Uçurum & Şans.
In 2008, Murat released his fourth single, "Uçurum", from the forthcoming album, under a new label DSM. The single peaked at 5th on the Turkish Billboard chart. After the single "Uçurum", he released his second studio album "Şans".
In 2009, "Şans" the second studio album released by and the album's first clip, "Para Yok" drew his piece. Another singles & music videos of "Özledim", "Herşeyi Yak", "Sallana Sallana", "Gümbür Gümbür", "İki Medeni İnsan" and "Buralardan Giderim" made the album "Şans" topping the charts again.
2010-2012: Hayat Sana Güzel, Aşklarım Büyük Benden & Dance Mix.
In March 2010, Boz released the single "Hayat Sana Güzel" which is also part of the soda-pop adverts "Yedigün" in CD and Digital formats, which has 5 different versions of the song. In May 2011, his 3rd studio album "Aşklarım Büyük Benden" was released, accompanied by the single of the same name. The following singles "Hayat Öpücüğü", "Geri Dönüş Olsa", "Kalamam Arkadaş" "Bulmaca" and "Soyadımsın" became popular hit songs. And also "Geri Dönüş Olsa" & "Kalamam Arkadaş" topped the Turkish Charts. Also in 2011 as a result of the success of the album "Aşklarım Büyük Benden", Boz captured the best male artist award. In October 2011, "O Ses Türkiye (The Voice Turkey)" he took place as a member of the jury. In August 2012, Murat Boz released his first remix album called "Dance Mix" with eight remixes and only one new song, the remake of "Yazmışsa Bozmak Olmaz."
Finally, in the 39 Golden Butterfly Awards, he won the "Best Turkish Pop Music Male Vocalist" Award.
2013: Olmuyor, Vazgeçmem, Greenpeace & Yedigün.
Murat Boz took part in various projects outside of his projects of albums and singles.
Still as a member of the jury of "O Ses Türkiye", his team managed to stay in the finals of the eight contestants, and Oğuz Berkay Fidan was the winner with the most votes in the final. 
Oğuz Fidan released in February 2013 his first single "Olmuyor", featuring Murat Boz, which was a hudge success in Turkey.
On April 12, at "Türkiye Müzik Ödülleri" (Turkish Music Awards), Boz won two awards on the category of "Best Remix" with "Özledim (Gurcell Club Mix)" & "Geri Dönüş Olsa (Erdem Kınay Remix)" both versions from the remix album "Dance Mix". Also on the Turkish Music Awards he performed for the first time his new single called "Vazgeçmem" from his forthcoming album. After a few hours he launched the new format from his website, and also released the music video on music channels and on YouTube. The "Vazgeçmem" video was directed by Nihat Odabaşı. On April 13, "Vazgeçmem" was released only on a Digital Single on iTunes and other digital music websites for sale. The song reached on the Top 5 peaking at 3 on the Turkish Airplay on radio and first at Turkish Digital Sales. And still yet, he took place at the campaign for the protection of the North Pole, backed by "Greenpeace". Finally, Yedigün released two more new adverts campaign featuring Boz, and sponsoring his new tour.
