St Thomas of Canterbury College
St Thomas of Canterbury College is a college for year 7 to 13 boys and offers a Catholic education to its students. It is located in Christchurch, New Zealand. The college is integrated into the state education system under an integration agreement which was first entered into by the Christian Brothers (as the proprietors of the college) and the Government of New Zealand on 11 November 1981 under Section 7 of the Private Schools Conditional Integration Act 1975. St Thomas of Canterbury College is located in the Christchurch suburb of Sockburn.
Rulo.
2006 yılında Canterbury College St Thomas etnik kompozisyonu Yeni Zelanda Avrupa / Pākeha% 72, Maori% 7, Samoa% 3, Diğer Pacifica% 1, Asya% 13, Orta Doğu% 2 ve Diğerleri% 2 idi. üniversite spor, kültürel, bilimsel ve kurumsal faaliyetlerinde öne çıkmaktadır. Akademik, okul National Certificate Educational Achievement değerlendirme sistemi (NCEA) üst düzey yıllardır sunuyor.
History.
Origins.
A Christian Brothers' school in Christchurch was first proposed in the 1880s. The third Catholic Bishop of Christchurch, Patrick Francis Lyons (Bishop 1944-1950) acquired land on Sockburn in West Christchurch and formally invited the Christian Brothers to provide the staff. There was no progress for several years. Eventually Brother Marlow, the Provincial of the Christian Brothers, and Edward Michael Joyce, the fourth Catholic Bishop of Christchurch (Bishop 1950-1964), agreed, and St Thomas of Canterbury College held its first classes on 6 February 1961 (Waitangi Day - not a public holiday then).
Early days.
The initial roll was 99 students in Forms 1-3 (years 7-9). The foundation staff were Brothers James Ignatius McClintock (Principal), Ian T Mahon and Carroll. Brother Simon Germaine Coughlan joined them in 1962. The school expanded its area when eight acres was acquired on the other side of Middle Park Road to be used as sports fields. Later several smaller areas were acquired to extend the fields, provide better access to them from the school, provide changing sheds and to provide a site for a residence for the Brothers. In 1964 Edward Joyce, the Bishop of Christchurch, transferred the ownership of the school to the Christian Brothers in whose ownership it remains. The college obtained scholastic success very early (especially when three students (JC Cleary, PM Heffernan and KF Hosking (Cleary and Hoskings were both in the lower sixth form) obtained Junior National University Scholarships in 1967. The New Zealand Herald commented that this was remarkable as St Thomas of Canterbury College was a new school and it was only the third year that it had an upper sixth form.
2011 earthquake.
Küçük hasar dışında, üniversite Christchurch depremlerden bağışladı. 2011 yılında 22 Şubat depremi sonucunda, Katolik Katedrali Koleji Canterbury College St Thomas taşındı ve "site paylaştı." Bunun nedeni önemli ölçüde zarar olmamasına rağmen, Katolik Katedrali Koleji parçaları Christchurch Katolik Katedrali kararsız 400 tonluk kubbenin altında idi. Kubbe çöküşün tehlikesi altında olduğundan, üniversite taşımak zorunda kaldı. Aziz Thomas 'sabah okula kendi kullanımı kısıtlı ve Katolik Katedrali Koleji öğleden sonra okula devraldı. Kubbe 26 Temmuz çıkarıldı ve Katolik Katedrali Koleji 1 Ağustos 2011 tarihinde geri kendi sitesine taşındı.
Golden jubilee.
In spite of the threat of earthquakes, the college celebrated its Golden Jubilee or 50th anniversary on 6–9 October 2011. "Around three hundred people were present and they revelled in: sports, fire dances, haka, tours, hangi, dancing, food, drink, rugby and spiritual celebrations." The events included a "50th Jubilee Celebration Day" to allow Old Boys to meet the pupils and see the school operating during a school day. An assembly included a Powhiri, Waiata and other songs, a Samoan fire dance, a PowerPoint presentation of the history of the College, the presentation of a time capsule and the cutting of a Jubilee Cake. John Airey, the first student to arrive at the college on 6 February 1961 was presented to the assembly. This was followed by a Hangi. There were sporting competitions with St Kevin’s College to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of sporting exchanges between the two Colleges (they started in the school’s first year). St Thomas's won the Rugby (54-0), but lost the Basketball (59-57) and the Football (4-0). A cricket match had to be cancelled because of rain. The 50th Celebration Dinner was held at the Showgate Room at Riccarton Raceway Function Centre. Former staff members including Christian Brothers were present. All these events were timed not to clash with games of the 2011 Rugby World Cup. The Jubilee Mass was celebrated by Bishop Barry Jones of Christchurch on Sunday 9 October in the St Thomas of Canterbury College hall.
Houses.
The names and colours of the St Thomas of Canterbury College Houses are:
Notable former staff.
List of St Thomas of Canterbury College Christian Brothers: - Br Edward Camillus Boreham - Br Ian Robert Carroll - Br J I Carroll - Br Richard Ignatius Carroll - Br Simon Germaine Coughlan - Br Noel Cuthbert Doherty - Br Graeme Gonzaga Donaldson - Br William Hofbauer Dowling - Br Denis Francis Edgar - Br Desmond Hugh Fay - Br Michael Paul Follas - Br Norman Campion Gillies - Br Francis Placidus Henery - Br James Malachy Hessian - Br Vincent Andrew Howell - Br Terry Felix Hunter - Br Walter Frederick Ives - Br Anthony Dominic Johnston - Br N A Jones - Br Vincent Innocent Jury - Br Brian Joseph Lauren - Br Austen A Loftus - Br Ian T Mahon - Br Christopher Claver Marlow - Br James Ignatius McClintock - Br Terence Vitus McErlane - Br Michael Joseph McMenamin - Br Joseph De Porres McRae - Br Patrick Theodore McSweeney - Br Gerard De Sales Mills - Br Kevin Flavian Moncur - Br Patrick Vincent Mullin - Br David Michael O'Dea - Br David Garnier O'Donoghue - Br Charles O'Rourke - Br Francis William Perkins - Br Anthony Geoffrey Pratt - Br Maurice Venard Quirke - Br John Gilbert Rodgers - Br Benjamin Everard Ryan - Br Michael Benignus Scanlan - Br Michael Luke Scott - Br John Henry Shepherd - Br Anthony Leo Smith - Br Victor Antonine Sullivan - Br Edward John Thorpe - Br Kevin Aquinas Vincent - Br Desmond Cecelius Waigth - Br Richard John Walsh - Br Peter Claver Watt - Br Gary Joseph Wellsmore.
