Semih Kaplanoğlu
Semih Kaplanoğlu (born 1963) is a Turkish playwright, film director and producer.
Life and career.
Kaplanoğlu was born in İzmir, Turkey. He graduated from the Faculty of Fine Arts of Dokuz Eylül University with a degree in Cinema and Television. In 1984, Kaplanoğlu moved to Istanbul and worked for a couple of years as a copywriter for advertising companies like Güzel Sanatlar Saatchi & Saatchi and Young & Rubicam.
He switched over to cinema in 1986 to become an assistant cameraman for two award-winning documentary films. In 1994 Kaplanoğlu wrote the script and directed a television series Şehnaz Tango with 52 episodes which was aired on TV channels Show TV and InterStar and became successful.
Besides his main pursuits in cinema, Semih Kaplanoğlu wrote articles between 1987 and 2003 on plastic arts and cinema which were published on arts periodicals and translated into foreign languages. In the years from 1996 through 2000, he had a column named "Karşılaşmalar" in the daily newspaper "Radikal".
The first film he directed "Herkes Kendi Evinde" ("Away From Home", 2001) won many awards participating in international film festivals. Kaplanoğlu's second feature film "Meleğin Düşüşü" ("Angel's Fall") premiered at the 2006 Berlin International Film Festival and found wide interest by international film critics and audience. 
He founded his own film production company Kaplan Film. Its first feature film "Egg" in 2007 was a co-production with Greece. Then "Süt" ("Milk") was released in 2008 and "Bal" ("Honey") was produced in 2010. The three films Egg, Milk and Honey form a trilogy called "Yusuf Üçlemesi" ("Yusuf's Trilogy"), named after the main character Yusuf in the films.
His 2007 film "Yumurta" ("Egg") brought many international awards for best film, best director, best screenplay and "Bal" won the Golden Bear at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival 
Family.
Kaplanoğlu is married to journalist, author and screenwriter Leyla İpekçi, who is a niece of the assassinated notable journalist Abdi İpekçi.
