Eylem Kızıl
Eylem Kızıl (born 5 September 1984 in London, United Kingdom) is a British-Cypriot singer. She is popular in Turkey and North Cyprus
Life.
Eylem was born in London. The name, "Eylem", means 'protest'. She is blessed with a name that describes her extremely well her manner is friendly and bubbly but she is not frightened to stand up for what she believes to be moral and correct. She is a positive and enthusiastic individual. As well as singing Eylem can also do various types of dancing which she en cooperates into her performances. She has developed a good understanding and knowledge of different faiths and cultures by working in a multicultural environment in the UK and overseas.
Eylem started her vocal training at VocalTech School and went on to stage with BTEC arts programme. Her music consists R&B and pop blend and a vocal talent of three octaves. She was first recognized in her auditions in the British television talent show "The X factor". She was one of the amazing unique talented individuals who made it through to ‘boot camp’. Unfortunately, she did not make it through to the finals. Eylem was a part of the girl band, Steamy Knights, and on the short list for 2002 Eurovision National Selection. She was also in front of the camera for Western Union, Play station, Channel 4 and campaigns, an international McDonald's and campaign and videos for The Streets and Appleton Sisters.
Her first album, "Aman", was released in 2006. It was an astonishingly unique album and with sales over 100,000 units, earned a Gold certificate. Four videos from the album were produced. The title song was a national hit and was succeeded "Mız Mız", "Masum Masum" and "Allah Allah". She won several "Best Breakthrough" awards in Turkey and Cyprus. Her next album, "Bir Sonraki", was released in 2008. The first single, "Güle Güle", received attention with its bilingual video, and the video for the song, "Hayat", became very popular. The videos were watched over 15 million times on YouTube.
"2010 Istanbul", her third album, was released in six languages—Turkish, English, Japanese, Italian, Russian, and German. Since its release, she has gathered a lot of interest in the business communities in these countries. After the single, "2010 Istanbul", was released in October 2010, Eylem has worked on her third studio album which was released on 27 June 2011.
Eylem was declared the face of LycaMobile and is the ambassador for this company in its overseas ventures amongst Turkish speaking countries. LycaMobile now sponsor Eylem in everything she does.
Eylem has on many occasions given up a lot of time in supporting worthwhile causes and charities. She is a strong supporter of children's charities and behind the scene she works closely with businesses to help these charities.
Recently the people of Adarpazer in Turkey organised support for the victims of the Japanese earthquake tsunami disaster and Eylem gave her support by attending and doing a short performance .The people of Adarpazer expressed condolences and sorrow to the Consul-General of Japan, The people of Adarpazer then went on to thank the people of Japan for their help during the disaster that they suffered in 1999. She is also a published writer. Her poem "Why Colour?" was selected from 46.000 applications and included was included "Spellbound" complitation.
Eylem, through her music, encourages hope and the will to continue, most importantly her music symbolises a fresh beginning and in the future this will most definitely be picked up by the media. Overall she is an inspiring individual who is a good role model for the younger generation. She is very charitable and humble. Eylem does take her time out to help charities and worldly causes. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfgFLG9-TdU
Eylem's songs are also being used on the website www.hthayat.com. The project involves other strongly important women in Turkey. It is also being used as the theme song for the TV and radio campaigns for this website. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfgFLG9-TdU.
Eylem is currently working on her launch in the United Kingdom with her single, "Turkish Delight", which was a big hit in Turkey. .
References.
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fSPad0ll-4U&feature=youtube_gdata_player]
