Gag Concert
Gag Concert () is a Korean sketch-comedy TV show on KBS 2TV network. It began airing in September 1999 and is the oldest of South Korea comedy programs. It is competing with SBS's "Smile People" (웃음을 찾는 사람들), MBC's "Fall in Comedy" (코미디의 길), and tvN's "Comedy Big League" (코미디빅리그). The show is recorded on Wednesdays and is aired on KBS 2TV on Sundays at 9:15 PM. The show airs again with English subtitles after three weeks on KBS World TV on Saturdays at 4:20 PM.
Starring.
"※ Korean alphabetical order as of December 7, 2014"
Famous Comedians and their Classes.
※ Source is Gag Concert Production Website.
Current Skits.
※ Order by ascending date according to the first airing time on the original channel "KBS 2TV".
"(Korean: 선배, 선배!; Starring: Lee Suji, Jo Suyeon, Jeong Myeonghun, Ryu Geunji, Kim Janggun, Park Seongho)" 
About a student from Gag Concert University who has a crush on her senior and try to seek advice from an unconcerned friend. On 28.Sep.2014, Park Seongho joined the skit as Park Terry (Parkteria) from the romance comics club.
"(Korean: 렛잇비; Starring: Song Pilgeun, Park Eunyeong, Lee Dongyun, Noh Ujin)" 
Musical comedy; office workers sing about work and their concerns to the tune of The Beatles' Let It Be. On 7.Sep.2014, real workers who have to work hard on holidays appeared as guests for Chuseok special; Yu Changseon (a fireman who talked about poor drives and prank calls), Kang Hyejin (nurse), Lee Hyeonu (unemployed guy who hunts for jobs), and Jeon Jeongok (housewife, Park Eunyeong's mother).
"(Korean: 쉰 밀회; Starring: Kim Jimin, Kim Daehui, Yu Minsang)" 
Parody of JTBC's "Secret Love Affair" (밀회): Yu Ain (Kim Daehui) is piano genius kid, and Kim Huiae (Kim Jimin) is the piano teacher. Yu Minsang plays Madam Seo, and Kim Daeseong used to play Kim Huiae's Husband. On 28.Sep.2014, pianist Shin Jiho appeared as a special guest.
"(Korean: 닭치高; Starring: Song Jungeun, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Im Uil, Kim Junho, An Somi)" 
Playful comedy corner about forgetful chickens who are attending "Half marinated, half fried" class in "Chicken High School". The corner starts with Cherry Filter's "Flying Duck". Song Jungeun plays the homeroom teacher, "Teacher Ticktock" (똑 닭, Tok Dalk), and Kim Junho plays the school principal, "Principal Cock-a-doodle-do" (꼭이오, Cockio). The students are Lee Sangho and Lee Sangmin the "Two Chickens" (두 마리 치킨, Du Mari Chicken) and Im Uil the "Fire Chicken" (불 닭, Bul Dalk). An Somi plays the school nurse, "Nurse Cluck" (후다 닭, Huda Dalk). There are many catchphrases in this skit such as 닭치고!! (Dalkchigo!! → Be quiet, chickens!) and 네네네넨~ 네네~ (NaNaNaNan NaNa~ → Yes, yes, yes!). On 7.Sep.2014, actor Cha Taehyun from 1N2D appeared as a guest for Chuseok special, he played the transfer student "Green Onion Chicken" (파닭, Pa Dalk). On 12.Oct.2014, the students appeared with winter uniforms, and An Somi appeared as a new student, "Mine Chicken" (찜닭, Jjim Dalk), instead of the school nurse. On 2.Nov.2014, Yu Minsang, Kim Suyeong and Kim Daehui appeared at the end of the corner.
"(Korean: 큰세계; Starring: Kim Junhyun, Song Yeonggil, Yu Minsang, Kim Suyeong, Kim Taewon. Skinny guys: Jeong Jinyeong, Choi Jaewon, Kim Hyeongi, Seo Namyong)" 
The title of the skit is a parody of 2013 crime movie "New World" (신세계). In year 2094, due to the exhaustion of food, the human race is about to die off. The survivors made their own underground world with their own rules, being fat means power, authority, honor and wealth, only fat people rule this world. All comedians starring in this corner are overweight, they compete on who weigh more by showing off their characteristics and eating ability. On 7.Sep.2014, SISTAR appeared as guests for the Chuseok special.
"(Korean: 가장자리; Starring: Lee Seungyun, Seo Taehun, Song Yeonggil, Lee Hyeonjeong, Park Yeongjin, Kim Seunghye)" 
Conversation between neighbors (bachelor --> newlywed married [202, lonely father bachelor [301) on the balcony.
"(Korean: 나 혼자 남자다; Starring: Park Sungkwang, Heo Anna, Seong Hyeonju, Kim Nina, An Ilgwon, Jeong Seunghwan)" 
About a new employee, the only straight male, in a company whose workforce is predominantly women, and who finds the company culture bizarre. A satire on male dominated workplaces in which women have to put up with macho, blokish "just be one of the lads" work cultures.
"(Korean: 힙합의 신; Starring: Kim Suyeong, Hong Yeaseul, An Somi, Lee Sangeun, Kim Hoegyeong, Kim Kiri, Park Bomi, Lee Sejin, Kim Huiwon, Kim Seongwon | Previous Appearances: Seo Namyong (Yang Grimy), Yoon Seunghyeon (Missed Swings), Lee Changho (Buddhistablo), Park Eunyeong, Ryu Geunil, Jeong Jaehyeong, Kwak Beom)" 
Musical parody of Mnet's reality program "Show Me the Money" in a show named "Show Me the What? (Show Me The 뭐니?)" hosted by Hamburger Patty (Kim Suyeong).
"(Korean: 10년 후; Starring: Heo Anna, Jeong Yunho, Oh Gihwan, Kim Hyeongi, Kwon Jaekwan, Im Uil)" 
A loan shark tries to bully the proprietress of a small business into paying back a loan, after turning up at her store every day for ten years, he becomes part of her and her son's lives.
"(Korean: 유민상 장가보내기 프로젝트 or 유장프; Starring: Yu Minsang, Song Yeonggil, Hong Hyeonho, Jeong Seungbin)" 
A corner to marry off Yu Minsang. Coffee Boy's "Will I Get Married" as signature song. On 12 & 26.Oct.2014, Noh Ujin joined to support Yu Minsang. On 9.Nov.2014, Kim Jimin appeared for support. On 16.Nov.2014, Park Jisun appeared for support. On 23.Nov.2014, Ryu Geunji appeared for support. On 30.Nov.2014, Kim Junho appeared for support.
"(Korean: 시청자 의견; Starring: Jeong Jaehyeong, Yoon Seunghyeon, Lee Sangeun, Kim Seunghye, Choi Jaewon)" 
Comparing drama scenes with reality.
"(Korean: 속상해; Starring: Kim Jiho, Kim Mingyeong, Song Byeongcheol, Jeong Taeho)"
"(Korean: 크레이지 러브; Starring: Seo Taehun, Kim Wonhyo, Park Sungkwang, Park Jisun, Kim Naehui)"
"(Korean: 명인본색 (名人本色); Starring: Im Jaebaek, Lee Sanggu, Jeong Yunho, Lee Hyeonjeong)"
"(Korean: 핵존심; Starring: Kim Kiyul, Yang Sunil, Jang Kiyoung, Hong Hwon, Lee Sanghun, Kim Huiwon, Jeong Haecheol)"
"(Korean: 젋은이의 양지; Starring: Lee Chan, Kim Wonhyo, Lee Munjae)"
"(Korean: 도찐개찐; Starring: Park Seongho, Lee Jonghun, Ryu Geunil, Kwak Beom, Kim Byeongseon)"
"(Korean: 사둥이는 아빠 딸; Starring: Jeong Taeho, Heo Min, Kim Seunghye, Park Soyeong, Oh Nami)"
"(Korean: 이.개.세 (이 개그맨들이 사는 세상); Starring: Jeong Beomgyun, Ryu Geunji, Park Sora, Song Yeonggil, Kim Mingyeong, Kim Jaewook, Heo Min)"
Previous Skits.
※ Alphabetical order. The dates are according to the airing time on the original channel "KBS 2TV".
"(Korean: "... ...", pronounced 점점점 점점점 ("jeomjeomjeom jeomjeomjeom"); Starring: Namgung Gyeongho, Kim Huiwon, Song Pilgeun, Yu Minsang)"
"(Korean: 씁쓸한 인생; Starring: Kim Junho → Kim Daehui, Yu Sangmoo → Kim Junhyun, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Lee Seungyun)" 
About a boss who suffers from his subordinate. This skit tied in with Kim Junho's 2009 gambling scandal, which cost him his television appearances and had to lie low for a year. In Gag Concert's 700th episode special, Lee Munjae took over Yu Sangmoo's role, and Kim Yeongcheol appeared as a special guest along with "The Yellow Sea"'s scammers.
"(Korean: 어른들을 위한 동화; Starring: Kim Kyunga, Lee Dongyun, Heo Min, Jeong Beomgyun, Lee Sangho)" 
Retelling of Korean fairy tales to a modern adult audience.
"(Korean: 비정상 교도소; Starring: Im Jaebaek, Song Wangho, Kim Jeonghun, Seo Taehun, Kim Jiho, Lee Wongu, Kim Seongwon)" 
ِA portrayal of what convicts do in their hour of free time.
"(Korean: 남성인권보장위원회; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Choi Hyojong, Park Seongho)"
"(Korean: 그렇습니다; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Im Hyeokpil)"
"(Korean: 엔젤스; Starring: Jang Yuhwan, Kim Jincheol, Lee Hyeseok, Eom Taegyeong, Kim Jongeun, Kim Mingyeong, An Somi, Hong Yeseul)" 
Funny portrayal of South Korea's idol fan culture.
"(Korean: 동물의 왕국; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Oh Jiheon, Jeong Jongcheol, Jo Suwon)"
"(Korean: 무섭지 아니한가(家); Starring: Oh Nami, Heo Anna, Song Yeonggil, Seo Namyong, Kim Huiwon)"
"(Korean: A-YO; Starring: Oh Jiheon, Chae Gyeongseon, Kim Jincheol)"
"(Korean: 그땐 그랬지; Starring: Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Kim Jaewook, Jo Yunho, Kim Mingyeong, An Somi)" 
About grandparents who tell their granddaughter stories to explain how life was different back in their days.
"(Korean: 두근두근; Starring: Lee Munjae, Jang Hyoin, Park Soyeong)" 
Romantic corner about friends who are secretly in love, with the signature song The Cranberries's "Ode to My Family" whenever either one of them slips up regarding his/her feelings toward the other, before playing/shrugging it off in an attempt to appear nonchalant. The corner starts with SECRET's "YooHoo".
"(Korean: 발레리NO; Starring: Jeong Taeho, Park Sungkwang, Lee Seungyun, Yang Sunil)"
"(Korean: 춤추는 대수사선; Starring: Park Seungho, Kim Daebeom, An Sangtae, Hwang Hyeonhui)" 
Based on the Japanese police drama/comedy series of the same name.
"(Korean: 뿜 엔터테인먼트; Starring: Kim Wonhyo, Kim Jimin, Kim Mingyeong, Shin Bora, Yu Inseok → Jang Yunseok, Park Eunyeong, Kim Hyeseon, Kim Junho)" 
Portraying in a sarcastic manner, the daily life of an entertainment company, its stressed and annoyed CEO, and their troublesome talents afflicted by the so-called "celebrity disease".
"(Korean: 짐승들; Starring: Lee Seungyun, Lee Sangmin, Lee Sangho, Heo Gyeonghwan)" 
Musical comedy; singing popular songs and showing physical strength as dance moves. A play on the term "Beastly Idols (짐승돌)" that is usually associated with 2PM. The group danced to 2PM's "I'll be back" on 25.Dec.2010 at KBS 2010 Entertainment Awards.
"(Korean: BB 채널; Starring: An Sangtae, Park Youngjin, Park Sungkwang, Jang Doyeon)"
"(Korean: 꽃보다 아름다워; Starring: Jeong Jongcheol, Jeong Hyeongdon, Oh Jiheon, Kim Sideok)"
"(Korean: 갈갈이 삼형제; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Jeong Jongcheol, Lee Seunghwan)"
"(Korean: 배꼽도둑; Starring: Kim Kiri, Lee Munjae, Lee Chan, Kwak Beom, Yoon Hanmin, Park Yeongjin)" 
About a comedian who doesn't want to come back on "Gag Concert" being persuaded by his former colleagues, and even though he claims he has forgotten how to do comedy, he still has the comedic touch.
"(Korean: 친한친구; Starring: Park Sungkwang, Kim Daeseong, Lee Dongyun, Jeong Haecheol)"
"(Korean: 흑과백; Starring: Jung Myunghun, Seo Jiyoung, Choi Huiseon, Jang Ung)"
"(Korean: 봉숭아 학당; Starring: See 봉숭아 학당)"
"(Korean: 꽃보다남자; Starring: Noh Ujin, Park Hwisoon, Heo Gyeonghwan, Park Jisun, Han Mingwan, Oh Nami)" 
Parody of the famous Korean drama of the same name. Guest-stars some of the actual actors from the drama.
"(Korean: 용감한 녀석들; Starring: Yang Sunil, Jeong Taeho, Shin Bora, Park Sungkwang, Park Eunyeong)" 
Musical comedy. Brave Guys became famous and well known in 2012; they recorded many songs and the skit took 2012's Top Excellence Award for idea.
"(Korean: 감수성; Starring: Kim Junho, Kim Daehui, Kwon Jaekwan, Lee Dongyun, Kim Yeongmin, Kim Jeonghun, Kim Jiho)"
"(Korean: 충무로; Starring: Lee Jeongsu, Kim Byungman, Jo Suwon, Eom Gyeongcheon)" 
"(Korean: 신사동 노랭이; Starring: Lee Sanghun, Kim Seongwon, Song Jungeun, Lee Jonghun, Song Pilgeun)" 
Musical comedy with three song composers who wear yellow. The skit's title is transliterated as "Yellow Songwriters of Shinsa-dong" which is a parody of producer and songwriter Lee Hoyang ("Shinsadong Tiger 신사동호랭이").
"(Korean: 후궁뎐 ; 꽃들의 전쟁; Starring: Lee Sanghun, Jang Hyoin, Kim Kyunga, Kim Naehui, Oh Nami, Jeong Jimin, Lee Yerim, Jo Seunghui)" 
"(Korean: 딸바보; Starring: Lee Seungyun, Kim Daeseong, Kim Hyeseon, Lee Jonghun)" 
A father who is too over-protective and lavishing upon his "beautiful angelic" daughter.
"(Korean: 대학로 로맨스; Starring: Seo Taehun, Heo Anna, Yu Inseok → Jeong Seunghwan)" 
A story of a performer in a Daehak-ro theater who broke up with her boyfriend and he is trying to get back to her.
"(Korean: 달라스; Starring KBS 29th Class Comedians (2014): Park Bomi, Kim Nina, Kim Seunghye, Choi Jaewon, Jeong Seungbin, Song Junseok, Lee Hyeonjeong, Im Jonghyeok, Hong Hyeonho, Lee Sangeun, Yoon Seunghyeon, Jeong Jaehyeong)" 
Remake of 'Differently' from 'The Gag Concert You've Never Seen Before' 2013's Chuseok Special. The skit is about inner thoughts at different situations.
"(Korean: 댄수다; Starring: Im Uil, Kim Jaewook, Heo Min, Song Jungeun, Lee Sangho, Hwang Sinyeong, An Somi)" 
Tango couple and modern dance couple have conversations during their performance and demonstrated it through their dance.
"(Korean: 연애능력평가; Starring: Jang Yuhwan, Jeong Beomgyun, Shin Jongryeong, Park Seongho)" 
Lessons about dating; Cheongdam Monkey Teacher (Jeong Beomgyun) solves dating problems, Tweezer Teacher (Shin Jongnyeong) plucks out funny facts, and Daechi Cleoparktra Teacher (Park Seongho) solves numerical problems.
"(Korean: 귀막힌 경찰서; Starring: Song Wangho, Byeon Seungyun, Song Jungeun, Kim Jiho, Yang Sangguk, Park Yeongjin, Park Sungkwang)" 
About incompetent policemen who doesn't do their work properly.
"(Korean: 징글 정글; Starring: Yu Minsang, Lee Dongyun, Kim Hyeseon, Ryu Geunil, Song Byeongcheol, Kim Daehui, An Ilgwon)"
"(Korean: 맛있는 한국어; Starring: Jeong Beomgyun, Song Jungeun, Sam Ochwiri, John, Saldor)"
"(Korean: 거지의 품격; Starring: Kim Jimin, Heo Gyeonghwan, Kim Yeonghui)" 
A lady who is always being bothered by a handsome "flower" beggar wherever she goes and is always ripping her off of ₩500 (the price of "curiosity"), and doing unsanitary things in front of her, and another beggar enamored towards the handsome "flower" beggar while accusing the lady of being a gold-digger (original context: flower snake 꽃뱀).
"(Korean: 생활의 발견; Starring: Song Jungeun, Shin Bora, Kim Kiri, Kim Junhyun)" 
About a couple who break up in a serious but funny way.
"(Korean: 가문의 망신; Starring: Kang Seongbeom, Kim Suk, Lee Taesik , Lee Byeongjin, Mun Seyun, Heo Seungjae)"
"(Korean: 도레미 트리오; Starring: Jeong Hyeongdon, Kim Inseok, Lee Jaehun)" 
Musical comedy.
"(Korean: 도레미 트리오2; Starring: Jeong Hyeongdon, Kim Inseok, Yu Sangmoo)" 
Musical comedy.
"(Korean: 닥터피쉬; Starring: Yu Seyoon, Lee Jonghun, Yang Sangguk, Song Byeongcheol)"
"(Korean: 버티고; Starring: Kim Jiho, Heo Anna, Lee Seongdong, Ryu Jeongnam, Kim Janggun, Kwon Jaekwan, Kim Hyeongi, Kim Junho)" 
Remake of 'Don't Give In' from 'The Gag Concert You've Never Seen Before' 2013's Seollal (Korean New Year) Special. Three hopefuls wanting to land a role in a movie who have to endure being subjected to actress Heo Anna's physical hits.
"(Korean: 두분 토론; Starring: Kim Kiyul, Park Yeongjin, Kim Yeonghui)"
"(Korean: 취해서 온 그대; Starring: Seo Taehun, Shin Yunseung, Kim Daeseong, Lee Heekyung, Lee Jonghun, Lee Seungyun | Previous Appearances: Hong Yeaseul, Kim Hyeseon)" 
About a bartender who goes through a lot of trouble when crazy customers start showing up at his bar. A play on "You Who Came from the Stars", as evidenced by Kim Hyeseon's character who acts like Cheon Songyi. On 7.Sep.2014, actress Kim Sumi appeared as a guest for Chuseok special. On 14.Sep.2014, "Let It Be" members were customers at the bar. On 5.Oct.2014, Lee Jonghun joined the skit along with Lee Seungyun.
"(Korean: 드라이 클리닝; Starring: Hong Ingyu, Yoon Hyungbin, Lee Jonghun, Kim Jiho, Jeong Gyungmi → An Somi)" 
Musical Comedy.
"(Korean: 덤앤더머 쇼 or 덤 앤 더머 Show; Starring: Kim Seongwon, Song Byeongcheol, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin)" 
Unique and unparalleled mime show featuring the twins working in unison to put on a slapstick performance; Kim Seongwon do the sounds and voices while the twins act them out. Song Byeongcheol is the translator. The corner starts with "Willy Wonka's Welcome Song" from the movie "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory".
"(Korean: 비상대책위원회; Starring: Kim Wonhyo, Song Byeongcheol, Kim Junhyun, Kim Junho, Kim Daeseong)"
"(Korean: 사랑의 가족; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Jeong Jongcheol, Oh Jiheon)"
"(Korean: 패션 7080; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Oh Jiheon, Park Hwisoon, Hong Gyeongjun, Yoon Hyungbin, Song Byeongcheol)" 
"(Korean: 패션 NO.5; Starring: Jang Doyeon, Heo Anna, Park Narae, Jeong Eunseon, Park Sora)" 
"(Korean: 아빠와 아들; Starring: Yu Minsang, Kim Suyeong)" 
About an overweight father and son who think alike when it comes to food.
"(Korean: 안 생겨요; Starring: Song Yeonggil, Yu Minsang)" 
About two still single and alone guys who failed to have a girlfriend in their past 15 → 16 years. Song Yeonggil got married on the 8th of June 2014, two weeks after the broadcast of the final episode of the skit.
"(Korean: 최종병기 그녀; Starring: Lee Seongdong, Kim Huiwon, Kim Hyeseon, Kim Taewon)"
"(Korean: 깜빡 홈쇼핑; Starring: Kim Jincheol, An Sangtae, Kang Juhui)"
"(Korean: 네가지; Starring: Kim Kiyul, Yang Sangguk, Heo Gyeonghwan, Kim Junhyun, Lee Wongu)" 
Problems faced by four → five (types of) men that the world (women in general) looks down upon, and their counter-arguments: unpopular men, country bumpkins, short men, fat men, and bald men.
"(Korean: 4인 4색; Starring: Eom Gyeongcheon, Kim Kisu, Kim Sangtae, Oh Jiheon, Choi Huiseon)" 
"(Korean: 풀하우스; Starring: Jeong Gyeongmi, Yu Minsang, Heo Min, Kim Kyunga, Kim Mingyeong, Kim Suyeong, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Lee Seungyun, Jeong Seunghwan)" 
About a family living in a house which is barely smaller than an average room, ergo, "Full House".
"(Korean: 까다로운 변선생; Starring: Byeon Kisu, Song Byeongcheol, Kim Kiyul, Lee Jonghun, Kwon Jaekwan, Park Junhyeong, Byeon Seungyun)"
"(Korean: 슈퍼스타 KBS; Starring: Lee Gwangseop, Shin Bora, Heo Anna, An Yunsang, Kim Jaewook, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin)" 
Musical comedy.
"(Korean: 개그제이 특공대; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Jo Seho, Lee Sugeun, Kang Juhui)" 
A parody of KBS's VJs on the Scene.
"(Korean: 개그 대국; Starring: Park Seungho, Yoon Seokju, Heo Donghwan, Jang Donghyeok)"
"(Korean: 거제도; Starring: Shin Bora, Jeong Taeho, Kim Mingyeong, Kim Hoegyeong)"
"(Korean: 군대온 걸; Starring: Kim Kyunga, Jeong Myeonghun, Heo Anna, Hong Nayeong, Park Seongho)" 
Remake of 'Girls in the Army' from 'The Gag Concert You've Never Seen Before' 2013's Chuseok Special. In the year 2157, women are now mandated by law to serve in the Korean military, and the skit portrays the funny side of female conscription.
"(Korean: 고조쇼; Starring: Park Seongho, Jeong Beomgyun, Jeong Haecheol, Park Jisun)" 
A skit interviewing Grandpa Go Jo (parody of the old-style sentence ender 고조), a very old yet still fit man who has lived as way way back as the 1894 Donghak Peasant Revolution. His "friend" entrance is followed by the signature song "You Are My Destiny". Grandma Nae Rae (내래), parody of the old-style self-reference, is in "some" relationship with Grandpa Go Jo (an ambiguous relationship where one is not a couple "officially" yet acts like a couple).
"(Korean: 고! 스톱?; Starring: Kim Kiyul, Jo Yunho, Hong Hwon, Kim Jeonghun, Im Uil)" 
"(Korean: 굿모닝 한글; Starring: Lee Heekyung, Lee Jonghun, Kim Seongwon, Song Jungeun, Matthew Sleight)"
"(Korean: 소름; Starring: Lee Chan, Seo Taehun, Song Jungeun, Jang Yuhwan, Kim Junhyun)" 
Horror stories that will give you chills in the middle of summer.
"(Korean: 할매가뿔났다; Starring: Yu Seyoon, Yu Sangmoo, Jang Dongmin)" 
"(Korean: 위대한 유산; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Kim Daeseong, Kim Huiwon, An Somi)"
"(Korean: 헬스보이; Starring: Lee Sangmin, Lee Seungyun, Lee Sangho)"
"(Korean: 헬스걸; Starring: Lee Seungyun, Lee Heekyung, Kwon Mijin, Lee Jonghun)"
"(Korean: 꽃미남 수사대; Starring: Lee Gwangseop, Kim Daeseong, Ryu Geunji, Kim Wonhyo, Park Seongho)"
"(Korean: 깐죽거리 잔혹사; Starring: Lee Dongyun, Heo Min, Ryu Jeongnam, An Ilgwon, Jo Yunho, Lee Seongdong, Lee Changho)" 
About a father and daughter who refuse to pay business protection money and use martial arts to evict the bad guys. A play on the movie "Once Upon a Time in High School", whose original transliterated title is "Maljukgeori Street's Cruel History". On 6.April.2014, Lee Seongdong joined the skit. On 7.Sep.2014, DJ DOC's Kim Changryeol appeared as a guest for Chuseok special. On 14.Sep.2014, "The Big World" members appeared in the skit. On 21.Sep.2014, Lee Changho joined the skit. On 28.Sep.2014, Jo Yunho announced that Lee Dongyun will become a father. On 2.Nov.2014, Taekwondo Demonstration Team appeared as special guests. On 9.Nov.2014, four vocalists (Kim Gyeonghun, Jo Wonil, Kim Yeongjae, Jeon Yeongju) appeared as special guests.
"(Korean: 숨은 표절찾기; Starring: Jeong Jimin, Park Eunyeong, Lee Sanghun → Song Jungeun, Kwon Jaekwan, Lee Chan, Kim Byeongseon)" 
Meeting between drama production staff (Drama department) and Gag Concert staff (Variety Show department) to discuss phrases and actions plagiarized from Gag Concert and used in drama.
"(Korean: 고음 불가; Starring: Ryu Dam, Lee Sugeun, Byeon Kisu)"
"(Korean: 초고속 카메라; Starring: Yu Sangmoo, Yu Minsang, Byeon Seungyun)" 
Portrays scenarios that show more than meets the eye in slow motion.
"(Korean: 존경합니다; Starring: Seo Taehun, Kim Junhyun, Song Byeongcheol, Park Jisun)" 
About a congressman who decided to join the presidential election and have to deal with ignorant assistants who do not respect him, and a crazy wife, Yu Hyera (Park Jisun), who is a drama maniac.
"(Korean: 나는 아빠다; Starring: Park Seongho, Hong Ingyu, Song Jungeun, Kim Daehui)" 
The difficulties a modern father faces being the family's breadwinner with young children.
"(Korean: 키컸으면; Starring: Lee Sugeun, Jeong Myeonghun, Jang Doyeon)"
"(Korean: 놀고있네; Starring: Yu Inseok, Kim Hyeongi)" 
Unemployed friends who use their imagination to portray their dreams.
"(Korean: KBS 스페셜 그것이 알고싶은 추적 60분 수첩; Starring: Kim Daehui, Hwang Hyeonhui, Im Jaehun, Jeong Yunho, Jeong Jimin, Two Mice)"
"(Korean: 짠짠극장; Starring: Heo Seungjae, Jung Myunghun, Kim Youngsam, Choi Huiseon)"
"(Korean: 편하게 있어; Starring: Kim Junhyun, Song Byeongcheol, Lee Jonghun, Lee Suji)" 
Portraying the relationship between the boss and his employee outside work.
"(Korean: 김시덕의 보이스 토크; Starring: Kim Sideok, Choi Guk)" 
Kim Sideok appears as the host of the show interviews many celebrities, portrayed by Choi Guk. Choi Guk dresses as celebrities and instead of his actual voice, it would be voice recordings of the actual celebrity he was acting as.
"(Korean: 착한녀석들; Starring: Yu Seyoon, Oh Jiheon, Lee Jonghun)" 
Introduces a trio who deliver their dialogue in a glib sly manner, before ending with an innocent twist.
"(Korean: 우행쇼; Starring: Im Jaehun, Hong Hwon, Park Yeongjin)"
"(Korean: 끝사랑; Starring: Kwon Jaekwan, Park Sora, Jeong Taeho, Kim Yeonghui)" 
Romance of middle-aged couple. Their signature song is Tae Jinah's "Companion". On 7.Sep.2014, Tae Jinah appeared as a guest for Chuseok special.
"(Korean: 전설의 레전드; Starring: Seo Taehun, Lee Dongyun, Shin Bora → Kim Nahui, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Kim Daeseong, Yu Minsang | Previous Appearance: Kim Taewon)" 
Musical comedy about school life. The corner starts with APink's "No No No", Shin Bora played Shin Pulip then was replaced on 2013.12.29 by Kim Nahui as Han Iseul. Lee Dongyun played Yoon Daeyeob the class president, Seo Taehun played Je Galmin the handsome student, Lee Sangho and Lee Sangmin played the mysterious twins. Kim Daeseong played Na Aeri the school bully (female student) while Yu Minsang played her follower.
"(Korean: 공부합시다; Starring: Kim Inseok, Kim Youngsam)"
"(Korean: 로비스트; Starring: Ryu Geunil, Jeong Seunghwan, Park Jisun, Kim Mingyeong, Kwon Jaekwan, Kim Seongwon)" 
When all else fails in negotiations, the world's greatest lobbyists are in the unlikely forms of two middle-aged "ahjumma"s who are good in persuasion at all costs.
"(Korean: 사랑의 카운셀러; Starring: Kang Yumi, Yu Seyoon)" 
"(Korean: 사랑이 팍팍; Starring: Lee Seungyun, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Han Mingwan, Jang Doyeon)"
"(Korean: 연인들; Starring: Lee Taesik, Kim Jihye, Kim Daehui, Choi Huiseon)"
"(Korean: 정여사; Starring: Song Byeongcheol, Kim Daeseong, Jeong Taeho)" 
A salesman's woes regarding rich people, in particular Madam Jeong (Jeong Taeho), her daughter Sophie (Kim Daeseong), and their "pet" Brownie which is a stuffed toy husky.
"(Korean: 사마귀 유치원; Starring: Jeong Beomgyun, Park Soyeong, Hong Nayeong, Jo Jihun, Park Seongho, Choi Hyojong)"
"(Korean: 마빡이; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Jeong Jongcheol, Kim Sideok, Kim Daebeom)"
"(Korean: 달인; Starring: Ryu Dam, Kim Byungman, Noh Ujin)" 
A master of anything whose claims are put to the test in a funny manner. Gag Concert's longest skit.
"(Korean: 세상아 덤벼라; Starring: Lee Wongu, Jeong Beomgyun, Kim Junhyun, Lee Changho, Shin Jongryeong, Park Yeongjin)" 
About police trying to negotiate with a crazy desperado.
"(Korean: 걸인의 추억; Starring: Jeong Hyeongdon, Kim Sideok, Lee Gyeongwu)"
"(Korean: 남자뉴스; Starring: Jeong Beomgyun, Hwang Hyeonhui, Lee Wongu, Park Seongho)"
"(Korean: 미션 임파서블; Starring: Choi Guk, Yoon Sungho)"
"(Korean: 사바나의 아침; Starring: Sim Hyeonseop, Kim Yeongcheol, Baek Jaehyeon, Kim Kyunghee, Kim Daehui, Kim Jihye, Kim Mihwa, Kim Junho)" 
Notable as this was one of the first skits to appear in Gag Concert.
"(Korean: 내 이름은 안상순; Starring: An Sangtae, Yoon Hyungbin, Jeong Gyeongmi)" 
A parody of MBC's drama My Lovely Sam Soon.
"(Korean: 미스테리 극장; Starring: Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin)"
"(Korean: 네비게이션; Starring: Yu Sangmoo, Yu Seyoon, Jang Dongmin)"
"(Korean: 우리 동네 청문회; Starring: Kim Hoegyeong, Lee Seungyun, Park Jisun, Kim Daeseong, Park Youngjin)" 
Kim Hoegyeong is the host of the personnel hearing, Lee Seungyun is questioned about his suitability to run a business. Park Jisun works with the truth, Kim Daeseong talks about the facts, and Park Youngjin pinpoints things that have nothing to do with the purpose of the hearing.
"(Korean: 9시쯤 뉴스; Starring: Jeong Gyungmi, Jang Donghyeok, Heo Min, Kim Junhyun, Kim Jimin | Previous Appearances: Lee Sugeun, Song Jungeun, Shin Bora, Kim Wonhyo, Lee Gwangseop, Lee Sanghun)"
"(Korean: 오성과 한음; Starring: Lee Hyeseok, Kim Jincheol, Kwak Beom)" 
Two friends who spend their days passing a baseball back-and-forth while talking about daily life.
"(Korean: 박성호의 뮤직토크; Starring: Park Seongho)"
"(Korean: 황현희PD의소비자고발; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Yu Minsang, An Yeongmi)" 
"(Korean: 핑크 레이디; Starring: Kim Janggun, Jo Seunghui, Ryu Geunji, Kwon Jaekwan, Lee Dongyun, An Somi, Kim Huiwon, Kim Hyeseon, Kim Yeonghui, Hong Nayeong | Voice acting: An Somi, Heo Min)"
"(Korean: 독한것들; Starring: Choi Hyojong, Jeong Beomgyun, Kwak Hangu, Oh Nami → Heo Anna)" 
"(Korean: 예뻐! 예뻐?; Starring: Hong Sunmok, Kim Jaewook, Kim Seunghye)" 
About a guy trying to break up with his pretty but awful girlfriend. The corner starts with Carly Rae Jepsen's "Call Me Maybe" and includes Ladies' Code's "Pretty Pretty", and Lee Kyung Hyun & Lee Ye Joon's "Curious About You". 
Due to Ladies' Code's tragic accident that happened on September 3 (and then EunB's death), the corner was excluded from the recording (within the same day) for the Chuseok special broadcast on September 7; RiSe died hours before the actual broadcast. The skit resumed a week later (September 14) with a significant change: Ladies' Code's "Pretty Pretty" (which was one of the last songs performed by the girls during their shoot in Daegu for KBS's "Open Concert", a few hours before their accident) was replaced by South Korean rock band SuperKidd's "SECO".
"(Korean: 수다맨; Starring: Kang Seongbeom, Kim Jihye, Park Eunbin)"
"(Korean: 현대 레알 사전; Starring: Lee Heekyung, Park Yeongjin, Jeong Beomgyun, Song Wangho)" 
An interactive dictionary which defines words in multiple perspectives.
"(Korean: 리얼토크쇼; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Lee Suji, Jeong Jimin, Shin Jongryeong, Ryu Geunil, Jeong Chanmin, Namgung Gyeongho, Oh Gihwan, Jeong Yunho, Shin Yunseung)" 
"(Korean: 리얼리T; Starring: Kim Kiri, Seo Taehun)"
"(Korean: 액션리얼리티; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, An Sangtae, Kim Daebeom)"
"(Korean: 사건의 전말; Starring: Park Youngjin, Kim Huiwon, Jang Yuhwan, Jang Kiyoung, Kim Jaewook, Kim Jimin)" 
About detectives who are investigating a crime scene, and they have to deal with crazy people who claim to be witnesses of the crime. Bonggu and Janggu (Jang Yuhwan and Jang Kiyoung) are kids who gets distracted when giving claims. Mr. K (Kim Jaewook) possesses psychometry, the extra-sensoral ability to get information and see things from the past when touching an object. Jimin always seems to say something that makes sense, but it turns out she is slurring words, later episodes she appears shockingly in and out of random places.
"(Korean: 복수; Starring: Park Seongho, Lee Byeongjin, Choi Huiseon)"
"(Korean: 초보뉴스; Starring: Kim Daehui, Kim Hoegyeong, Jeong Yunho, Yang Sangguk, Kim Wonhyo)" 
Rookie announcers who mess up their first time news broadcasts to the embarrassment of a veteran senior.
"(Korean: 갑을컴퍼니; Starring: Yu Inseok, Hong Ingyu, Kim Jincheol, Kim Jiho, Choi Hyojong, Kim Junho, Lee Wongu)"
"(Korean: 멘붕스쿨; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui → Song Jungeun, Hong Nayeong, Park Soyeong, Seo Taehun, Byeon Seungyun, Jeong Seunghwan, Kim Jaewook, Kim Seongwon, Park Seongho)"
"(Korean: 은밀하게 연애하게; Starring: Yang Sunil, Kim Kiyul, Park Bomi, Im Jonghyeok, Jang Kiyoung | Previous Appearance: Jeong Seunghwan)" 
The title of the skit is a parody of 2013 action comedy movie "Secretly, Greatly (은밀하게 위대하게)". The corner is about two detectives in violent crimes division who are secretly dating.
"(Korean: 이기적인 특허소 (이특); Starring: Park Yeongjin, Park Sungkwang, Lee Gwangseop, Kim Seongwon, Kim Taewon, An Somi, Lee Munjae)"
"(Korean: 서울메이트; Starring: Yang Sangguk, Heo Gyeonghwan, Ryu Jeongnam, Park Sora)"
"(Korean: 씨스타29; Starring: Park Jisun, Oh Nami, Song Byeongcheol)" 
A parody of unit sub-group "SISTAR19", composed of 29-year old women lounging at a bar and imitating the intro choreography of "Gone Not Around Any Longer". They blame everything, from being passed over CF deals, to celebrities "less beautiful than them", to their single status, on the "curse of the nines" (their age being a particle of nine).
"(Korean: 꺾기도; Starring: Kim Junho, Hong Ingyu, Jang Kiyeong, Jo Yunho, Lee Sangho, Lee Sangmin, Yu Minsang)"
"(Korean: 애매한 것을 정해주는 남자 (애정남); Starring: Ryu Geunji, Choi Hyojong, Lee Wongu, Shin Jongryeong)"
"(Korean: 미안해요 형; Starring: Hong Sunmok, Lee Sanggu, Kwak Beom, Jeong Yunho)" 
About a boss and his new part-timers who keep driving him crazy.
"(Korean: 사운드 오브 드라마; Starring: Yu Minsang, Byeon Seungyun, Heo Anna)"
"(Korean: 날 보러 와요; Starring: Im Jaebaek, Park Eunyeong, Lee Seongdong, Kwon Jaekwan, Im Uil, Jeong Haecheol)" 
About an acting crew who spoil the script to attract attention with their exaggerated acting skills, just for the taste of the spotlight.
"(Korean: 살아있네; Starring: Choi Hyojong, Hong Sunmok, Yoon Hyungbin, Song Wangho)" 
A parody of the movie "Nameless Gangster" in terms of the mafia family and attempts of finding solutions to problems through connections.
"(Korean: 멘탈 갑 (甲); Starring: Park Sungkwang, Lee Sanghun, Yang Sunil, Ryu Geunil, Hong Yeaseul, Kim Byeongseon, Park Seongho (Class 28), Jo Seunghui)" 
A corner to save weak-minded people from mental breakdown.
"(Korean: 견뎌; Starring: Park Yeongjin, Kim Kiyul, Kwon Jaekwan, Jo Suyeon, Hong Hwon, Kim Jeonghun)"
"(Korean: 생활사투리; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Jeong Jongcheol, Kim Sideok, Lee Jaehun)"
"(Korean: 누려; Starring: Park Jisun, Lee Heekyung, Kim Huiwon, Jang Yuhwan, Yu Minsang)" 
About a "nouveau riches" couple and daughter-in-law trying to take advantage of their new-found wealth in every situation while still unconsciously acting like their old way of life.
"(Korean: 타락토비; Starring: Im Hyeokpil, Kim Inseok, Jung Myunghun, Heo Seungjae)"
"(Korean: 분장실의 강 선생님; Starring: Kim Kyunga, Jeong Gyungmi, Kang Yumi, An Yeongmi)"
"(Korean: 그래 그래; Starring: Noh Ujin, Song Pilgeun, Kim Jeonghun, Song Wangho, Lee Sanggu)" 
About a stubborn gang leader and his subordinate and how they deal with the police when their crimes are discovered by mindless excuses.
"(Korean: 감사합니다; Starring: Jeong Taeho, Song Byeongcheol, Lee Sanghun)" 
Musical comedy.
"(Korean: 애니뭘; Starring: Jeong Beomgyun, Ryu Jeongnam, Jo Jihun, Kim Wonhyo, Park Seongho, Kim Junho)"
"(Korean: 하극상; Starring: Kim Wonhyo, Jeong Beomgyun, Choi Hyojong)"
"(Korean: 전국구; Starring: Lee Gwangseop, Lee Jonghun, Lee Sangmin, Lee Sangho, Kim Kiri)" 
Musical comedy; songs about different fashions in an exaggerated way. The band released an album (Fashion City) in 2013.
"(Korean: 어르신; Starring: Kim Daehui, Lee Munjae, Kim Wonhyo, Ryu Jeongnam, Jeong Myeonghun)"
"(Korean: 희극 여배우들; Starring: Ryu Geunji → Lee Heekyung, Jeong Gyeongmi, Heo Anna → Kim Yeonghui, Park Jisun)"
"(Korean: 왕게임; Starring: Kim Jeonghun, Noh Ujin, Jang Kiyeong, Kim Kiyul, Park Yeongjin)" 
An interactive game where the viewers can vote through SMS, which one of the four representatives are more fitting in a given situation.
"(Korean: 시청률의 제왕; Starring: Park Sungkwang, Lee Sanghun, Heo Anna, Kim Taewon, Ryu Geunji, Yang Sunil, Kim Hoegyeong, Oh Gihwan | Semi-fixed cast: Lee Heekyung, Hong Nayeong)" 
In essence a parody of SBS's "The King of Dramas", this skit parodies common methods ("makjang" plotlines, character insertion & write-offs, utilization of idol actors, and obvious yet senseless PPLs) overly used by producers in order to raise their ratings as represented by a real-time ratings graph.
"(Korean: 노애; Starring: Heo Anna, Song Yeonggil, Jeong Jinyeong, Jeong Seunghwan, Lee Huikyeong, Park Eunyeong)"
"(Korean: 로열 패밀리; Starring: Jang Doyeon, Kim Kyunga, Han Mingwan, Song Byeongcheol)"
"(Korean: 놈놈놈; Starring: Song Pilgeun, An Somi, Bok Hyunkyu, Kim Kiri, Yu Inseok, Ryu Geunji)" 
Remake of 'Love Artistestes' from 'The Gag Concert You've Never Seen Before' 2013's Chuseok Special.
About three handsome friends (plus random handsome all-around stranger) that keep interrupting Pilgeun's dates with his girlfriend.
The corner starts with NC.A's "Oh My God".
"(Korean: 바보삼대; Starring: Kim Junho, Kim Daehui, Lee Taesik)"
"(Korean: 피곤한 가족; Starring: Kim Jaewook, Kim Mingyeong, Lee Sangmin, Lee Sangho, Kim Daehui, Lee Dongyun → Lee Seungyun, Kim Taewon, Park Soyeong → Kim Hyeseon, Heo Min)"
"(Korean: 불편한 진실; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Jeong Jimin, Kim Kiri, Kim Jimin, Jeong Eunseon, Park Jisun, Kim Mingyeong, Jang Kiyeong)" 
Analyzing overly-clichéd storylines and pointing out their flaws.
"(Korean: 막말자; Starring: Hwang Hyeonhui, Jeong Eunseon, Kim Hyeseon, Oh Nami)"
"(Korean: 황해; Starring: Lee Suji, Jeong Chanmin, Shin Yunseung, Lee Sanggu, Hong Ingyu, Hong Sunmok)" 
A funny parody of the "The Yellow Sea" (film with the same name). Voice phishing and scamming attempts. This skit took 2013's Top Excellence Award for idea.
"(Korean: 왕해; Starring: Lee Gwangseop, Lee Dongyun, Kim Daeseong, Ryu Geunil, Lee Seungyun, Yang Sunil, Jeong Myeonghun, Shin Goeun)" 
A loose parody of "Gwanghae"; it is about a king constantly being underestimated by everyone around him (from his ministers to his generals) on account of his young age.
"(Korean: 이 죽일놈의 사랑; Starring: Park Jisun, Kim Daeseong, Park Sora)"
"(Korean: 시간여행; Starring: Jeong Taeho, Yang Sunil, Jang Doyeon, Lee Sangmin, Lee Sangho)"
"(Korean: 공포의 과외선생; Starring: Kim Byungman, Yoon Seokju, Yoon Sungho)"
"(Korean: 기다려 늑대; Starring: Ryu Geunji, Kim Hyeseon, Seo Namyong, Song Yeonggil)" 
A parody of "A Werewolf Boy".
"(Korean: 우리들은 새싹들이다; Starring: Im Hyeokpil, Kim Kisu, Kwon Jinyoung)"
"(Korean: 위캔척; Starring: Choi Hyojong, Park Soyeong, Hong Sunmok, Jeong Haecheol)"
"(Korean: 대화가 필요해; Starring: Kim Daehui, Jang Dongmin, Shin Bongseon)" 
For Gag Concert's 700th episode special, Kim Kiri took over Jang Dongmin's role as the son, though in respect to the original roles, he was cast as Dongmin's younger brother who is serving his mandatory military service.
"(Korean: 만약에; Starring: Jang Ung, Kim Junho)"
"(Korean: 남자가 필요없는 이유; Starring: Hong Nayeong, Park Sora, Seo Taehun → Lee Chan, Jeong Seunghwan, Jeong Myeonghun)" 
Sora's stories from previous experiences in dating the worst kinds of handsome men (who are players), devoted men (who are too obsessed), and average men (who are horndogs) to explain why women don't need men.
"(Korean: 미필적 고의; Starring: Park Sungkwang, Kim Wonhyo, Song Byeongcheol, Kim Daehui, Im Uil)"
"(Korean: 참 좋은 시절; Starring: Lee Chan, Yang Sunil, Heo Anna, Park Sora, Kim Taewon, Park Youngjin)" 
The title is a parody of KBS's weekend drama "Wonderful Days (참 좋은 시절)". The skit is about a poor family consisting of five members, Heo Anna the mother and her brother Kim Taewon, Yang Sunil the father, Park Sora the daughter and Lee Chan the son. Park Youngjin plays the landlady. The skit feature their bedtime conversations.
"(Korean: 있기 없기; Starring: Heo Min, Lee Munjae, Jeong Jinyeong)"
"(Korean: 나쁜 사람; Starring: Lee Sanggu, Lee Munjae, Yu Minsang, Lee Chan)"
"(Korean: 청년백서; Starring: Park Junhyeong, Im Hyeokpil, Kim Sideok, Park Seungho)"
"(Korean: 지그재그송; Starring: Kim Junho, Jeong Jongcheol, Kang Seongbeom)"
"(Korean: 좀비 프로젝트; Starring: Kim Junho, Jeong Taeho, Kim Janggun, Kim Seongwon, Kim Naehui)" 
Remake of 'World War Zombie' from 'The Gag Concert You've Never Seen Before' 2013's Chuseok Special. About two zombies who groan about eating humans, but spare a beautiful woman.
"(Korean: 억수르; Starring: Song Jungeun, Hong Hwon, Jeong Haecheol, Kim Kiyul, Kim Mingyeong, Oh Nami)" 
This corner started with the title ""Mansour 만수르"" on July 13, 2014 but hasn't aired an episode yet on KBS World because it was an actual name of sheikh. On July 27, 2014, the title was changed to ""Eoksour 억수르""; a play on the original title (Mansour) which meant ten thousand and was upgraded to hundred million (Eoksour). On 7.Sep.2014, John Park appeared as a guest for Chuseok special.
KBS Entertainment Awards in Comedy.
Each year, comedians are awarded for their performance in Gag Concert in three categories: Best Newcomer, Excellence Award, and Top Excellence. The best skit idea is awarded with "Top Excellence Award for Idea".
