Genetik Blueprint
Genetik Blueprint are a heavy metal band from Central Scotland, UK formed in 2004. The band comprises vocalist Duncan McLeish and guitarist Mark McCarroll, bassist Paul Stewart, synthesist Michael McCarroll and drummer David Buchanan. After a year hiatus due to illness the band are back with two new members (bassist Paul Stewart and synth player Michael McCarroll) and are currently in the process of recording their first full-length album set for tentative release in 2011. In addition the band are currently seeking representation from management companies and record labels.
History.
Formation (2004).
Formed in late 2003 early 2004 in Central Scotland, UK, Genetik Blueprint formed after Duncan, David and Mark met at the local College and realized they collectively had similar taste in music. Later that year they were joined by Patrick Coyle and together the band released their self-titled EP in early 2004. The EP received local attention, but it would be another 6 months until they would break onto the crowded metal circuit in Central Scotland's principal cities Edinburgh and Glasgow.
"Calculate" and "Fractionize" (2005).
The band returned to the studio for work on two 3 track releases "Calculate" and "Fractionize" in late 2004. By early 2005 the songs were in place. Recording at Home Grown Recordings, the studio the band had utilised for their previous effort, the band recorded mixed and mastered their new releases in 5 days.
In 2005, with these CDs in tow, the band landed successful supports with Warner Bros Welsh Metallers Skindred and London Alt Punk Band Selfish Cunt and continued their frequent touring with Denmark metal group The Psyke Project.
"Splitting the Atom" (2006-7).
During the "Calculate/Fractionize" era, the band was already writing material for what the band stated would be their last short release before recording a full length album. They abandoned their trademark hard hitting thrash metals industrial formula for a more aggressive poly-rhythmic sound. They re-entered the studio in the summer of 2006 to record "Splitting the Atom". The band cited their general dissolution and disgust for the current trend of same sounding bands as their main motive for the change in direction.
The release was welcome warmly and sold out in the first few months or release by the band.
The end of 2006 found the band opening for Trustkill Records hardcore heavyweights "Walls of Jericho" and later that year for techno death metal outfit "Berzerker".
Much of 2007 was spent writing songs for their first full length album, however the band managed to play a few gigs in support of the new Welsh metal signings, "Shaped by Fate" and finished off their gigging year with the opening slot on former Sony Record's Punk Metallers "Amen".
"Member Change and the Future" (2008-present).
The band announced via their MySpace in January 2008 that they would be the opening band on the Scottish leg of Earache Records - London Orchestral Metal outfit Biomechanical. Shortly after this gig the band parted ways with bassist Pat Coyle
During this time the band went on hiatus due to illness and continued to write music although no progress was made on the band's debut album.
Over a year later, medical issues were still present but the band finally managed to regroup and acquaint themselves in the practice room
In January 2010, the band began to retake shape.. with new bassist Paul Stewart coming into the band along with synth player Michael McCarroll to allow Duncan McLeish more room to concentrate on vocals.
With this new line-up the band are ready to get back into the swing of things.. and their debut album set with a tentative release of 2011.
