Alevism
Alevism or Alevi (/'ælɛvij/, also /æˈlɛviː/ or /əˈleɪviː/, or /Alevileri, also called Qizilbash, "Spiritual Shiism" or "Sufi-Shia" by outsiders) is a mystical branche in Islam who claim to be followers of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, the Twelve Imams (other than Sunni muslims who believe in the four Rashidun caliphs) and their descendant, the 13th century Alevi saint Haji Bektash Veli. Having some links with Twelver Shia Islam (like the importance of the Ahl al-Bayt, the day of Ashura, the Mourning of Muharram, commemorating Karbala, etc.), the practice of the Alevis are based on Sufi elements of the Bektashi "tariqa", and have a lot of points in agreement with Quranism. Alevism is seen as one of the two main branches of Islam in Turkey, the other being Sunni Islam. The two branches are said to have come into existence after the death of Hussain ibn Ali at the Battle of Karbala.
Controversy on the matter of its definition.
Some sources link "Alevism" to Shia Islam and particularly to the heterodox syncretic sufi group known as the Bektashi Order. According to these sources, "Alevism" is very closely related to Bektashism: commonalities include the veneration of the Alevi saint Haji Bektash Veli, a Turkish or Iranian saint from Khorasan (modern-day Iran) of the 13th century. Many Alevis refer to an "Alevi-Bektashi" tradition, but this identity is not universally adopted, nor is the combined name used by non-Turkish Bektashis (e.g., in the Balkans). In addition to its religious aspect, "Alevism" is also closely associated with Anatolian folk culture.
Alevi identity.
Alevis claim to be following the bāṭenī "(mystical)" teachings of Muhammad, the Quran, his Ahl al-Bayt, The Twelve Imams and their descendant Alevi saint and sufi master Haji Bektash Veli. For this reason it's also referred to as "Shīʿah-ee Bāṭen’īyyah". Most of the believers live in Turkey, with some scattered minorities in Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Caucasus, Greece, Iran and the Turkish Diaspora.
Conglomeration of syncretic beliefs.
According to a wide variety of academic sources, "Alevism" is a syncretic religion, combining diverse religious beliefs, which developed from Islam, Buddhist-influenced Turkic shamanism, and some elements of Christianity. According to Turkish university research conducted in 2005, 44% of Alevi respondents self-identify as Muslim and 56% do not. Nevertheless, one should always bear in mind that some members of the non-muslim communities like Kurdish Yâresân "(Ahl-i Haqq)" and Ishik-Alevis define/identify themselves under the title of Alawism as well. Henceforth, it is always possible either to enlarge or to shrink the borders of the Alevism with respect to which of these definitions are going to be used.
The definition of the Presidency of Alevi-Islam Religion Services.
According to "The President of the Islamic-Alevi Religious Services" Dede "(religious figure)" İzzettin Doğan, ""Alevism"" is nothing but a tasawwufī-bāṭenī interpretation "(tafsir)" of Islam.
Etymology.
"Alevi" is generally explained as referring to Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad. The name represents a Turkish form of the word "‘Alawi" () "of or pertaining to Ali". According to Ishikists' assertion, on the other hand, it was derived from "Alev" ("flame" in Turkish) in reference to fire which is extensively used in Alevi rituals.
Even though the term "Alevi" is thought to be simply the Turkish derived form of Arabic "‘Alawī", the Arab form of the term today refers to the distinct group of the Arabic-speaking Alawites of Syria.
Alevi used to be grouped as "" ("redheads"), a generic term used by Sunni Muslims in the Ottoman Empire for the various Shia sects from the 15th century. 
Many other names exist (often for subgroupings), among them "Woodcutters", "Bards" and .
Alevi Islamic School of Theology "(Madhhab)".
In Turkey, Shia Muslim people belong to the Jafari Islamic school, which tracks back to the sixth Shia Imam Jafar al-Sadiq "(also known as Imam Jafar-i Sadiq)," are called as the Ja'farīs, who belong to Twelver Shia. Although the Alevi Turks are being considered as a part of Twelver Shia Islam, they are different than the Jafarī Muslims in their convictions and beliefs.
Following poem is (one) source to be concerned:
Beliefs.
Alevi beliefs are hard to define, since Aleviness is a diverse movement without any central authority, and its boundaries with other groups are poorly demarcated. Many teachings are based on an orally transmitted tradition which has generally been kept secret from outsiders (but is now widely accessible).
The basis for Aleviness's most distinctive beliefs is found in the Buyruks (compiled writings and dialogues of Sheikh Safi-ad-din Ardabili (eponym of the Safavi order), Ja'far al-Sadiq (the Sixth Imam), and other worthies). Also included are hymns "(nefes)" by figures such as Shah Ismail or Pir Sultan Abdal, stories of Hajji Bektash and other lore.
Allah, Muhammad and Ali.
Alevis believe in the unity of Allah, Muhammad, and Ali, but this is not a trinity composed of God and the historical figures of Muhammad and Ali. Rather, Muhammad and Ali are representations of divine energies, the first of which is Allah.
<br>
The Twelve Imams.
The Twelve Imams is another common Alevi belief. Each Imam represents a different aspect of the Universe and are realised as twelve services or "On İki Hizmet" which are performed by members of the Alevi community. Each Imam is believed to be a reflection of Ali ibn Abu Talib, the first Imam of the Shi'ites, thus we find references to the "First Ali" "(Birinci Ali)," Imam Hasan the "Second 'Ali" "(İkinci Ali)," and so on up to the "Twelfth 'Ali" "(Onikinci Ali)," Imam Mehdi. The Twelfth Imam is hidden and represents the Messianic Age.
Plurality.
There are two sides to creation, one goes from a spiritual centre to plurality, the other goes from plurality to the spiritual centre. Plurality is the separation of pure consciousness from the divine source. It is seen as a curtain alienating creation from the divine source, and an illusion which in Aleviness is called the "Zāherī" or the "Exoteric" side to reality. The hidden or true nature of creation is called the "bāṭenī" or the "esoteric."
The fact of plurality in nature is attributed to the infinite potential energy of Kull-i Nafs when it takes corporeal form as it descends into being from Allah.
During the Cem ceremony, the cantor or "aşık" sings:
This is sung as a reminder that the reason for creation is love, so that the followers may know themselves and each other and that they may love that which they know.
The perfect human-being.
Linked to the concept of the Prototypal Human is that of the "Perfect Human Being" "(Insan-i Kamil)." Although it is common to refer to Ali and Haji Bektash Veli or the other Alevi saints as manifestations of the perfect human being, the Perfect Human Being is also identified with our true identity as pure consciousness, hence the Qur'anic concept of human beings not having original sin, consciousness being pure and perfect. The human task is to fully realise this state while still in material human form.
The Perfect Human Being is also defined in practical terms, as one who is in full moral control of his or her hands, tongue and loins "(eline diline beline sahip)"; treats all kinds of people equally "(yetmiş iki millete aynı gözle bakar)"; and serves the interests of others. One who has achieved this kind of enlightenment is also called ""eren"" or ""münevver" (mūnavvar)."
Practices.
The Alevi spiritual path ("yol") is commonly understood to take place through four major life-stages, or "gates".
These may be further subdivided into "four gates, forty levels" ("Dört Kapı Kırk Makam"). The first gate (religious law) is considered elementary (and this may be perceived as subtle criticism of other Muslim traditions).
The following are major crimes that cause an Alevi to be declared "düşkün" (shunned):
Most Alevi activity takes place in the context of the second gate "(spiritual brotherhood)," during which one submits to a living spiritual guide "(dede, pir, mürşid)." The existence of the third and fourth gates is mostly theoretical, though some older Alevis have apparently received initiation into the third.
Cem and Cemevi.
The central Alevi corporate worship service is the "Cem ceremony". Alevi worship and other social activities take place in assembly houses ("Cemevi"). The ceremony's supposed prototype is the Muhammad's nocturnal ascent into heaven, where he beheld a gathering of forty saints ("Kırklar Meclisi"), and the Divine Reality made manifest in their leader, Ali.
The Cem ceremony features music, singing, and dancing ("Samāh") in which both women and men participate. Rituals are performed in Turkish, Zazaki, Kurmanji and other local languages.
Bağlama
During the "Cem ceremony" the "ashik" plays the Bağlama whilst singing spiritual songs, some of which are centuries old and well known amongst Alevis. Every song, called a "Nefes" has spiritual meaning and aims to teach the participants important lessons. One such song goes thus:
Samāh
A family of ritual dances characterized by turning and swirling, is an inseparable part of any "cem". "Samāh" is performed by men and women together, to the accompaniment of the Bağlama. The dances symbolize (for example) the revolution of the planets around the Sun (by man and woman turning in circles), and the putting off of one’s self and uniting with God.
Görgü Cemi
The Rite of Integration "(görgü cemi)" is a complex ritual occasion in which a variety of tasks are allotted to incumbents bound together by extrafamilial brotherhood "(müsahiplik)," who undertake a dramatization of unity and integration under the direction of the spiritual leader "(dede)."
Dem
The love of the creator for the created and vice versa is symbolised in the "Cem ceremony" by the use of fruit juice and/or red wine "" which represents the intoxication of the lover in the beloved. During the ceremony is "Dem" one of the twelve duties of the participants. (see above)
Sohbet
At the closing of the cem ceremony the Dede who leads the ceremony engages the participants in a discussion "(chat)," this discussion is called a "sohbet."
Myths
The phrase "mum söndü" ("The candle went out") alludes to an accusation about a holy moment of some "cem" rituals in which twelve candles (representing the Twelve Imams) are doused with water. For centuries it has been widely spread among Sunnis to demean Alevis by accusing them of having orgies after blowing off the ritual candles. However, this is a rumoured belief which does not exist.
This accusation has especially been used during the time of the Safavid-Ottoman conflict, as means to justify killing of the Qizilbash people, which were declared "infidels" by the Ottomans.
Twelve services.
There are twelve services () performed by attendees of the cem.
Festivals.
Newruz "New Day" is the Persian New Year observed on 21 March (the Spring equinox) as a celebration of newness and reconciliation. It is celebrated by many modern Turkic peoples as well. Apart from the original beliefs of the Zoroastrians regarding the New Year, Alevis also celebrate and commemorate the birth of Ali, his wedding with Fatima, the rescue of Yusuf from the well, and the creation of the world on this day. Various cem ceremonies and special programs are held.
Mourning of Muharram.
The Muslim month of Muharram begins 20 days after Eid ul-Adha (). Alevis observe a fast for the first twelve days. This is called "", "" or "" "(Mourning of Muharram)". This culminates in the festival of Ashura (), which commemorates the martyrdom of Husayn at Karbala. The fast is broken with a special dish (also called "aşure") prepared from a variety (often twelve) of fruits, nuts, and grains. Many events are associated with this celebration, including the salvation of Husayn's son Ali ibn Husayn from the massacre at Karbala, thus allowing the bloodline of the family of Muhammad to continue.
The solstice and equinox celebrations and their confusion with historical and human incarnations are very well mirrored in Christian religious, and even political, celebrations, e.g. May Day and Christmas, and more closely still with Celtic traditions.
Hıdırellez.
Hıdırellez honors the mysterious figure Khidr () who is sometimes identified with Elijah (Ilyas), and is said to have drunk of the water of life. Some hold that Khidr comes to the rescue of those in distress on land, while Elijah helps those at sea; and that they meet at a rose tree in the evening of every 6 May. The festival is also celebrated in parts of the Balkans by the name of "Erdelez," where it falls on the same day as Đurđevdan or St. George's Day.
Khidr is also honored with a three-day fast in mid-February called "Hızır Orucu". In addition to avoiding any sort of comfort or enjoyment, Alevis also abstain from food and water for the entire day, though they do drink liquids other than water during the evening.
Note that the dates of the Khidr holidays can differ among Alevis, most of whom use a lunar calendar, but some a solar calendar.
Müsahiplik.
"Müsahiplik" (roughly, "Companionship") is a covenant relationship between two men of the same age, preferably along with their wives. In a ceremony in the presence of a dede the partners make a lifelong commitment to care for the spiritual, emotional, and physical needs of each other and their children. The ties between couples who have made this commitment is at least as strong as it is for blood relatives, so much so that müsahiplik is often called spiritual brotherhood "(manevi kardeşlik)." The children of covenanted couples may not marry.
Krisztina Kehl-Bodrogi reports that the identify "müsahiplik" with the first gate "(şeriat)," since they regard it as a precondition for the second "(tarikat)." Those who attain to the third gate "(marifat", "gnosis") must have been in a "müsahiplik" relationship for at least twelve years. Entry into the third gate dissolves the "müsahiplik" relationship (which otherwise persists unto death), in a ceremony called "Öz Verme Âyini" ("ceremony of giving up the self").
The value corresponding to the second gate (and necessary to enter the third) is "âşinalık" ("intimacy," perhaps with God). Its counterpart for the third gate is called "peşinelik"; for the fourth gate "(hâkikat", Ultimate Truth), "cıngıldaşlık" or "cengildeşlik" (translations uncertain).
Folk practices.
Many folk practices may be identified, though few of them are specific to the Alevis. In this connection, scholar Martin van Bruinessen notes a sign from Turkey's Ministry of Religion, attached to Istanbul's shrine of Eyüp Sultan, which presents...a long list of ‘superstitious’ practices that are emphatically declared to be non-Islamic and objectionable, such as lighting candles or placing ‘wishing stones’ on the tomb, tying pieces of cloth to the shrine or to the trees in front of it, throwing money on the tomb, asking the dead directly for help, circling seven times around the trees in the courtyard or pressing one’s face against the walls of the türbe in the hope of a supernatural cure, tying beads to the shrine and expecting supernatural support from them, sacrificing roosters or turkeys as a vow to the shrine. The list is probably an inventory of common local practices the authorities wish to prevent from re-emerging.Other, similar practices include kissing door frames of holy rooms; not stepping on the threshold of holy buildings; seeking prayers from reputed healers; and making "lokma" and sharing it with others.
Ziyarat to sacred places.
While Alevism does not recognize an obligation to go on pilgrimage, performing ziyarat and du'a at the tombs of Alevi-Bektashi saints or pirs is quite common. Some of the most frequently visited sites are the shrines of Şahkulu and Karacaahmet (both in Istanbul), Abdal Musa (Antalya), Battal Gazi (Eskişehir), the annual celebrations held at Hacıbektaş "(16 August)" and Sivas (the Pir Sultan Abdal Kültür Etkinlikleri, 23–24 June).
In contrast with the traditional secrecy of the "Cem ceremony" ritual, the events at these cultural centers and sites are open to the public. In the case of the Hacibektaş celebration, since 1990 the activities there have been taken over by Turkey's Ministry of Culture in the interest of promoting tourism and Turkish patriotism rather than Alevi spirituality.
Some Alevis make pilgrimages to mountains and other natural sites believed to be imbued with holiness.
Almsgiving.
Alevis are not expected to give Zakat in the Islamic mode, and there is no set formula or prescribed amount for charity. A common method of Alevi almsgiving is through donating food (especially sacrificial animals) to be shared with worshippers and guests. Alevis also donate money to be used to help the poor, to support the religious, educational and cultural activities of Alevi centers and organizations "(dergâh, vakıf, dernek)," and to provide scholarships for students.
Society.
Leadership structure.
In contrast to the Bektashi "tariqa", which like other Sufi orders is based on a silsila "initiatory chain or lineage" of teachers and their students, Alevi leaders succeed to their role on the basis of family descent. Perhaps ten percent of Alevis belong to a religious elite called "ocak" "hearth", indicating descent from Ali and/or various other saints and heroes. "Ocak" members are called "ocakzade"s or "sons of the hearth". This system apparently originated with Safavid Persia.
Alevi leaders are variously called "murshid, pir, rehber" or "dede." Groups that conceive of these as ranks of a hierarchy (as in the Bektashi "tariqa") disagree as to the order. The last of these, "dede" "grandfather", is the term preferred by the scholarly literature. "Ocakzade"s may attain to the position of "dede" on the basis of selection (by a father from among several sons), character, and learning. In contrast to Alevi rhetoric on the equality of the sexes, it is generally assumed that only males may fill such leadership roles.
Traditionally "Dedes" did not merely lead rituals, but led their communities, often in conjunction with local notables such as the ağas (large landowners) of the Dersim Region. They also acted as judges or arbiters, presiding over village courts called "Düşkünlük Meydanı".
Ordinary Alevi would owe allegiance to a particular "dede" lineage (but not others) on the basis of pre-existing family or village relations. Some fall instead under the authority of Bektashi dargah (lodges).
In the wake of 20th century urbanization (which removed young laborers from the villages) and socialist influence (which looked upon the Dedes with suspicion), the old hierarchy has largely broken down. Many "Dedes" now receive salaries from Alevi cultural centers, which arguably subordinates their role. Such centers no longer feature community business or deliberation, such as the old ritual of reconciliation, but emphasize musical and dance performance to the exclusion of these. Dedes are now approached on a voluntary basis, and their role has become more circumscribed—limited to religious rituals, research, and giving advice.
Alevi women.
According to John Shindeldecker "Alevis are proud to point out that they are monogamous, Alevi women worship together with men, Alevi women are free to dress in modern clothing, Alevi women are encouraged to get the best education they can, and Alevi women are free to go into any occupation they choose.
According to Australian anthropologist Dr. Sevgi Kilic, while Alevi women do not experience gender segregation in the private and public domain they are subject to traditional male values about women's sexuality and constructed within the honor/shame paradigm. This ethnography is the first on Alevi women in Turkey and argues that Alevi identity is complex, diverse and rich in its theory and practice.
Hence, while rural Alevi women subscribe to traditional conservative views about women's status in the family, these ideas are rapidly changing within an urban environment, where many are compelled to work as domestic servants and in other low paid jobs. Alevi women are not required to wear a headscarf or other bodily coverings. According to Kilic this is because Alevi identity is very much focused on the internal rather than the external representation and covering women's hair or concealing the female body in and of itself cannot legitimize women's moral, social, political and economic worth. Thus an unveiled Alevi woman cannot impugn her honour or her communities. Thus Alevi women's bodies are what Kilic calls paradoxically 'neutral' and acts as an "ideology of difference."
Relations with other Muslim groups.
Alevis are classified as a sect of Shia Islam, as Alevis accept Twelver Shi‘a beliefs about Ali and the Twelve Imams, and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini decreed Alevis to be part of the Shia fold in the 1970s. There are, however, Alevi philosophies, customs, and rituals that are appreciably different than those of Twelver Shias in Iraq and Iran. 
According to more orthodox Sunni Muslims, Alevis are labeled as "ghulat" groups, since Alevis praise Ali beyond what mainstream Muslims would expect. He and Muhammad are likened to the two sides of a coin, or the two halves of an apple. Some even speak of a trinity of God, Muhammad, and Ali.
Sufi elements in Alevism.
Despite this essentially Shi‘i orientation, much of Aleviness' mystical language is inspired by Sufi traditions. For example, the Alevi concept of God is derived from the philosophy of Ibn Arabi and involves a chain of emanation from God, to spiritual man, earthly man, animals, plants, and minerals. The goal of spiritual life is to follow this path in the reverse direction, to unity with God, or Haqq (Reality, Truth). From the highest perspective, all is God (see "Wahdat-ul-Wujood)." Alevis admire Mansur Al-Hallaj, a 10th-century Sufi who was accused of blasphemy and subsequently executed in Baghdad for saying “I am the Truth” "(Ana al-Haqq)."
There is some tension between folk tradition Aleviness and the Bektashi Order, which is a Sufi order founded on Alevi beliefs. In certain Turkish communities other Sufi orders ( the Halveti-Jerrahi and some of the Rifa'i) have incorporated significant Alevi influence.
Relations with Sunnis.
The relationship between Alevis and Sunnis is one of mutual suspicion and prejudice dating back to the Ottoman period. Sunnis have accused Alevis of heresy, heterodoxy, rebellion, betrayal and immorality. Alevis, on the other hand, have argued that the Quran does not demand five prayers, nor mosque attendance, nor pilgrimage, and that the Sunnis distorted early Islam by omitting, misinterpreting, or changing the meaning of verses from the Quran with fabricated hadith, especially those dealing with Ali and ritual practice.
Alevis see Sunni mentality as originating in Arabia and as contrary to the Turkish national character. Some Alevis believe sunnah and hadith were Arab elite innovations, created to ensure Arab dominance of Islam and to enslave the masses through manipulation. Sunnism, according to the Alevis, is not true Islam but an aberration that by its strict nomianism opposes free and independent thought and is seen as reactionary, bigoted, fanatic, and antidemocratic. Alevis believe Sunni nationalism is intolerant, domineering, and unwilling to recognize Alevi uniqueness.
Alevis use Sunnism as the "Other", the opposite pole to Alevism, by which they identify themselves. The original Quran does not demand five prayers, nor mosque attendance, nor pilgrimage - the Sunnis distorted early Islam by omitting, misinterpreting, or changing important passages of the original Quran, especially those dealing with Ali and ritual practice. Only Alevis have kept Muhammad's Islam in its pure form, fulfilling his demands for moral purity, love of humanity, and faith in one God, and only they can claim to be the "true Islam." Alevis see themselves in contrast to Sunnis as tolerant and not aggressive xenophobic chauvinists. Sunni nationalism is seen as intolerant, domineering, unwilling to recognise Alevi uniqueness.
Alevis traditionally saw themselves as belonging to the "community of the saved", a chosen people who possess the divine secret knowledge and are superior to the misled Sunnis in their zeal for externals. They trace their roots to the original true revelation of Islam to Muhammad in Arabia, and stress that it was a religion of freedom, equality, and justice. Ali as Muhammad's only true successor and the most perfect of Muslims carried on true Islam and was the representative of the poor and the marginalised. All great Alevi leaders have the typical Alevi characteristics of justice, egalitarianism, humility, and peacefulness. They all were revolutionaries aiming at radical change in society, loyal to ideals, fighting for the final triumph of good over evil. In God's inscrutable providence, good Alevism was forced to an underground existence of dissimulation and retreat due to a powerful onslaught of evil.
In today's political arena Alevis see themselves as a counterforce to Sunni fundamentalism in Turkey. Alevis, who have a great interest in blocking the rising fundamentalist influence, are the main allies of the democratic secularists, and are also searching for alliances with moderate Sunnis against the extremists. They are demanding that the state recognize Aleviness as an official Islamic community equal to, but different from, Sunnism. As yet the Presidency of Religious Affairs "(Diyanet)" only represents and promotes Sunni Islam based on the Hanafi school of law, and does not recognise Alevis.
Main differences with other Muslim sects.
Furthermore, during the period of Ottoman Empire, Alevis were forbidden to proselytise, and Alevism regenerated itself internally by paternal descent. To prevent penetration by hostile outsiders, the Alevis insisted on strict endogamy which eventually made them into a quasi-ethnic group. Alevi taboos limited interaction with the dominant Sunni political-religious centre. Excommunication was the ultimate punishment threatening those who married outsiders, cooperated with outsiders economically, or ate with outsiders. It was also forbidden to use the state (Sunni) courts.
History.
Seljuk period.
During the great Turkish expansion from Central Asia into Iran and Anatolia in the Seljuk period (11-12th centuries), Turkmen nomad tribes accepted a Sufi and pro-Ali form of Islam that co-existed with some of their pre-Islamic customs. These tribes dominated central and eastern Anatolia for centuries with their religious warriors (ghazi) spearheading the drive against Byzantines and Slavs. Many Armenians converted to Turkmen type Islam while retaining some Christian practices, and some observers believe that heterodox Armenian Christianity exerted a significant influence on the beliefs of the extremist Shi`ite sects.
Ottoman period.
The Ottomans had accepted Sunni Islam in the 13th century as a means to unifying their empire, and later proclaimed themselves its defenders against the Safavid Shia state and related heretical sects. This created a gap between the Sunni Ottoman ruling elite and the Alevi Anatolian population. Anatolia became a battlefield between Safavids and Ottomans, each determined to include it in their Empire.
Demographics.
The size of the Alevi population is likewise disputed, but most estimates place them somewhere between 15 to 20 million people, primarily in Turkey.
The Alevi population has been estimated as follows:
Alevis have been subjected to persecution "(often deadly)" for centuries. Due to this fact, some have been assimilated. It is not clear how effective the above study is in including those who might be more timid about advertising their Alevi origins.
Some of the Kurdish Alevis speak Kurmanji or Zazaki. Some Alevis are Azeris. Despite universalist rhetoric (and in contrast with Islam in general, or the Bektashi order), Alevi communities do not generally acknowledge the possibility of conversion to Aleviness.
Alevi communities are concentrated in central Anatolia, in a belt from Çorum in the west to Muş in the east. The only province within Turkey with an Alevi majority is Tunceli, formerly known as "Dersim". Beginning in the 1960s, many Alevis have migrated to the large cities of western and southern Turkey—and to western Europe, especially Germany—and are now heavily urbanized.
Social groups.
A Turkish scholar working in France has distinguished four main groups among contemporary Alevis, which cautiously show their distinctive features in modern Turkey.
Bektashi.
The Bektashiyyah is a Shia Sufi order founded in the 13th century by Haji Bektash Veli, a dervish who escaped Central Asia and found refuge with the Seljuks in Anatolia at the time of the Mongol invasions (1219–23). This order gained a great following in rural areas and it later developed in two branches: the Celebi clan, who claimed to be physical descendants of Haji Bektash Veli, were called "Bel evladları" (children of the loins), and became the hereditary spiritual leaders of the rural Alevis; and the "Babağan," those faithful to the path "(yol evladları - children of the way)" who dominated the official Bektashi Sufi order with its elected leadership.
Bektashiyyah doctrine: "Bektashism and Hurufism".
The Bektashi Order is a Sufi order and shares much in common with other Islamic mystical movements, such as the need for an experienced spiritual guide — called a "baba" in Bektashi parlance — as well as the doctrine of "the four gates that must be traversed": the "Sharia" "(religious law)," "Tariqah" "(the spiritual path)," "Marifa" "(true knowledge)," "Haqiqah" "(truth)."
Wahdat-ul-Wujood.
Bektashism places much emphasis on the concept of Wahdat-ul-Wujood وحدة الوجود, the "Unity of Being" that was formulated by Ibn Arabi. This has often been labeled as pantheism, although it is a concept closer to panentheism. Bektashism is also heavily permeated with Shiite concepts, such as the marked veneration of Ali, The Twelve Imams, and the ritual commemoration of Ashurah marking the Battle of Karbala. The old Persian holiday of Nowruz is celebrated by Bektashis as Imam Ali's birthday.
In keeping with the central belief of "Wahdat-ul-Wujood" the Bektashi see reality contained in Haqq-Muhammad-Ali, a single unified entity. Bektashi do not consider this a form of trinity. There are many other practices and ceremonies that share similarity with other faiths, such as a ritual meal ("muhabbet") and yearly confession of sins to a "baba" ("magfirat-i zunub" مغفرة الذنوب). Bektashis base their practices and rituals on their non-orthodox and mystical interpretation and understanding of the Qur'an and the prophetic practice (Sunnah). They have no written doctrine specific to them, thus rules and rituals may differ depending on under whose influence one has been taught. Bektashis generally revere Sufi mystics outside of their own order, such as Ibn Arabi, Al-Ghazali and Jelalludin Rumi who are close in spirit to them.
Batiniyya and Ismailism.
Bektashis hold that the Qur'an has two levels of meaning: an outer ("Zāher" ظاهر) and an inner ("bāṭen" باطن). They hold the latter to be superior and eternal and this is reflected in their understanding of both the universe and humanity, which is a view that can also be found in Ismailism and Batiniyya.
Bektashism is also initiatic and members must traverse various levels or ranks as they progress along the spiritual path to the Reality. First level members are called "aşıks" عاشق. They are those who, while not having taken initiation into the order, are nevertheless drawn to it. Following initiation (called "nasip") one becomes a "mühip" محب. After some time as a "mühip", one can take further vows and become a "dervish". The next level above dervish is that of "baba". The "baba" (lit. father) is considered to be the head of a "tekke" and qualified to give spiritual guidance ("irshad" إرشاد). Above the "baba" is the rank of "halife-baba" (or "dede", grandfather). Traditionally there were twelve of these, the most senior being the "dedebaba" (great-grandfather). The "dedebaba" was considered to be the highest ranking authority in the Bektashi Order. Traditionally the residence of the "dedebaba" was the Pir Evi (The Saint's Home) which was located in the shrine of Hajji Bektash Wali in the central Anatolian town of Hacıbektaş "(Solucakarahüyük)".
Qizilbash.
The Kizilbash "(red-heads)" were Turkmen tribes who adhered to the Safavid Sufi Order, whose Sheikhs claimed descent from Ali. Under Isma`il (d. 1524) they became dominant in Eastern Anatolia and conquered Azerbaijan with its capital Tabriz, where Isma`il named himself Shah in 1501 and went on to conquer all of Iran. His missionaries spread a message of revolt against the Sunni Ottomans in Anatolia, claiming that Isma`il was the awaited mahdi "(messiah)," and Anatolia became the scene of protracted warfare between Ottomans and Safavids.
Qizilbash doctrine: "Kızılbaşlık".
Qizilbash and Bektashi tariqah shared common religious beliefs and practices becoming intermingled as Alevis in spite of many local variations. Isolated from both the Sunni Ottomans and the Twelver Shi`a Safavids, Qizilbash and Bektashi developed traditions, practices, and doctrines by the early 17th century which marked them as a closed autonomous religious community. As a result of the immense pressures to conform to Sunni Islam, all members of "Alevism" developed a tradition of opposition "(ibāḥa)" to all forms of external religion.
The doctrine of Qizilbashism is well explained in the following poem written by the Shaykh of Safaviyya tariqah Ismail I:
The lines of poetry above may easily be judged as an act of "Shirk" "(polytheism)" by the Sunni Ulama, but they have a bāṭenī taʾwīl "(inner explanation)" in Qizilbashism. 
Alevi music.
Alevi religious services, referred to collectively as "cem" or "âyîn", include spiritual exercises that incorporate elements of "zikr" ("remembrance" or recitation of God's names, in this case without controlled breathing, but with some elements of body posturing) and "sema" (ritual dance). The latter is accompanied by sung mystical poetry in the vernacular, and by the sacred ritual instrument known as "bağlama" or "saz" (a plucked folk lute with frets).
Such music is performed by specialists known as "zâkir", "aşık", "sazende" or "güvende", depending on regional usage. They are recruited from Alevi communities and descended from "dede" lineages. Many are also known to be poet/minstrels "(aşık, ozan)" who perpetuate the tradition of dervish-lodge "(tekke)" poets such as Yunus Emre "(13th century)," Nesîmî "(14th century)," Pir Sultan Abdal, Hatâ'î and Genç Abdal "(16th century)" and Kul Himmet and Kul Hüseyn "(17th century)." The poetry was composed in the Turkish vernacular and follows the principles of folk prosody known as "hece vezne" in which the focus is the number of syllables.
The specialized sacred musical repertoire of Alevi musicians includes
The dances are performed with dignity by couples, and choreographies employ circle and line formations as well as arrangements where couples face one another, thus synchronizing their movements more closely. As the tempo of the music increases, the figures become more complex and intense. There are many regional variants of sema, but the most widespread and important are the Dance of the Forty "(Kırklar Semahı)" and the Dance of the Cranes "(Turnalar Semahı)."
The "âyîn-î-cem" can be heard on the "JVC CD Turkey - An Esoteric Sufi Ceremony". Unfortunately for non-specialists, the notes are very vague and give no indication of location, performers, musical genres or poetic forms. The recording was made in Istanbul in 1993, and the ceremony includes in an order typical of a "cem" : a "deyiş" that reiterates the line of descent of the sect in a historical framework, two "düvaz" (one based on the poetry of Hatâ'î, and the other on the poetry of Kul Himmet), prayer formulas, the "ill-Âllâh" genre that incorporates the "tahlîl" formula into the poem to create an atmosphere of "zikr" while sect members create rhythmic intensity by hitting their knees in time to the music and sway their bodies slightly, the Dance of the Forty (Kırklar Semah), the Dance of the Cranes "(Turnalar Semahı)" and prayer formulas.
Alevis have a significant role in Turkish music and poetry. Pir Sultan Abdal, a 16th-century Alevi poet whose poems and songs often contain spiritual themes, is revered as a saint and hero. Important figures are the Sufi poet Yunus Emre, widely regarded as having been Alevi, and Kaygusuz Abdal. Their poems shape Turkish culture up to now, and are also performed by modern artists. Songs attributed to these poets have been embraced by left-wingers in the 20th century. The aşık bards are also influenced by Alevi tradition.
Many of the major traditional musicians in Turkey are Alevi, including Arif Sağ, Musa Eroğlu, Erdal Erzincan, Aşık Mahzuni Şerif, Aşık Feyzullah Çınar, Aşık Veysel Şatıroğlu, Ali Ekber Çiçek, Sabahat Akkiraz, Belkıs Akkale, and Ulaş Özdemir. Other non-Alevis, such as Ruhi Su, have recorded many Alevi songs. Mercan Dede, an artist whose music combines electronic and traditional Sufi elements, has made some songs involving Alevi themes in cooperation with singer Sabahat Akkiraz. [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6GYBGzdOKP4]
