Dağı Garibaldi
Dağı Garibaldi British Columbia, Vancouver, Kanada kuzeyindeki Sky ülkeye Denizi'nde potansiyel olarak aktif Stratovolkan olduğunu. Güney Sahil Dağları yer alan otel, South Coast bölgenin en tanınmış zirveleri yanı sıra British Columbia en iyi bilinen yanardağ biridir. Garibaldi Pasifik Aralıkları aralıkları içinde yatıyor.
Bu ağır aşınmış kubbe kompleksi Squamish şehir manzaralı Garibaldi Provincial Park güneybatı köşesinde kaplar. Bir buzul üzerinde oluştuğu bilinen Kuzey Amerika'da Sadece büyük Pleistosen yaşı yanardağ olduğunu. Cascade Volkanik Arc içinde Garibaldi Volkanik Kuşağı parçası olmasına rağmen, Cascade Range parçası olarak kabul edilmez.
Insanlık tarihi.
Yerli insanlar.
Squamish insanlar için, bu bölgenin yerel yerli halkı, dağ "Nch'kay" denir. Onların dilinde bu "Kirli bir yer" ya da "Grimy One" anlamına gelir. Dağın Bu isim Cheekye River çamurlu su anlamına gelir. Kendi tarihinde önemli bir rol oynar Bu dağ, alanda bulunan diğerleri gibi, kutsal kabul edilir. Sözlü tarih, onlar arazi kapsayan sel bir hikaye aşağı geçti. Bu süre zarfında, sadece iki dağ su üzerinde doruğa ve bu dağ onlardan biri oldu. Bu sel kalan kurtulan zirvesine onların Kano mandallı ve çökmek üzere sular için bekledi buradaydı. Dağ ayrıca bulutlar dağ yüzünü kapsayan zaman, yağmur veya kar geliyor sinyalleri insanlara hava göstergesi olarak, olarak hizmet vermektedir. Kültürel tören kullanım, avcılık, yakalama ve bitki toplama Dağı Garibaldi alanı çevresinde meydana, ama en önemli kaynak obsidiyen adında bir litik malzeme oldu. Obsidian öncesi temas zamanlarda bıçak, keski, adzes ve diğer sivri araçlar yapmak için kullanılan bir siyah volkanik camdır. Bu malzeme "Protohistorik süreler kadar 10.000 yıl öncesine tarihlenen sitelerinde görünür. Bu malzeme için kaynak dağ çevreleyen yüksek rakımlarda dağ alanının üst kısımlarında bulunur.
Sonra tarih.
İngiliz Explorer Yüzbaşı George Vancouver Haziran 1792 yılında Howe Sound ulaştı ve dağ görmek için ilk Avrupalı ​​oldu. Bu süre zarfında, George Vancouver tanıştı ve bölgedeki yerel yerlileri ile ticareti.
1860 yılında, gemide Howe Sound bir anket yaparken Kraliyet Donanması gemisi HMS anketi "Dolgunlaştırıcı" Yüzbaşı George Henry Richards kuzeydoğuya doğru görünümü hakim devasa bir dağ tarafından etkilendim. Kaptan Richards ve onun memurları, o yıl Sicilya ve Napoli patriating ile İtalya birleştirici başarmıştı İtalyan askeri ve siyasi lider Giuseppe Garibaldi, sonra dağa değiştirildi. Ağustos 1907 yılında Vancouver dağcılar A. Dalton, Dalton W., A. King T. Pattison, JJ Trorey ve G. Warren Dağı Garibaldi zirvesine ulaştı. zirveden görünümlerinden Garibaldi Gölü'nde yaz tırmanma kamplarının kurulması ilham kaynağı oldu. Bu erken faiz park rezervi 1920 yılında kurulmasına yol açtı.
1927 yılında, Garibaldi Bölge Parkı olarak adlandırılan büyük bir vahşi parkı haline getirilmiştir. Dağı Garibaldi Adını bu 1,946.5 kilometrekarelik parkı zengin jeolojik tarihini, çeşitli bitki örtüsü, yanardöner sular, bol yaban hayatı ve buzulların şapkalı birçoğu engebeli dağları korumak için kurulmuştur.
Kayak 1940'larda yakalandı zaman Vancouver kayakçı parkın içinde buzullar ve engebeli dağlar aramaya başladı. Erken kayak Garibaldi Gölü çevresinde daha kolay ulaştığı alana sınırlıydı. 1944 kışında, bir kulüp grubu Dağı Garibaldi ilk olası kayak tamamladı. Ünlü dağcı Don ve Phyllis Munday ayrıca parça sürü tamamladı. 1944-1945 "Kanada Alp Journal" olarak Mundays Mundays arkadaş oldu Phil Brook, Mount Garibaldi bir kayak girişimini bildirdi. Onlar Sfenks Glacier yapmıyordum ve aynı gezi sırasında hemen kuzeyinde Garibaldi Gölü Panorama Ridge scrabbled. En önemlisi, bir yol Howe Sound kuzey ucunda Squamish küçük topluluk yakın Paul Ridge üzerine inşa edilmiş bu dönemde, bu nedenle Dağı Garibaldi yakınlarındaki dağlık daha iyi bir araç yaklaşımını verilmiş. Kolay erişim ile Vancouver kayakçı Dağı Garibaldi buzullar üzerinde daha fazla zaman harcadı. Bunun sonucu Dağı Garibaldi güzel bir iniş içerebilir Garibaldi Neve Traverse, (Hava izin) bir gecede macera 1940'larda yayılıyor.
İştirak zirveleri.
Dağı Garibaldi geniş ilk üç adlandırılmış doruklarına içerir. En yüksek tepe deniz seviyesinden ulaşan dağ kendisi olarak isimlendirilmiştir. ikinci en yüksek zirve yüksekliğe ulaşır ve Garibaldi Provincial Park güneybatı ucunda yatıyor zirve platosuna, güney kenarında Atwell Peak keskin piramit olduğunu. Bu zirve, yüksek yuvarlak Dalton Dome, en yüksek zirvesi batı Atwell Duncan Francis Joseph King, üç düşük 1907 yılında Dağı Garibaldi ilk tırmanış lideri peşinde adlandırılmıştır. Bu zirve Arthur Tinniswood Dalton, 1907 yükselişin kılavuzları biri almıştır.
Tent olarak bilinen dağın kuzey tarafında bir özelliği, ulaşır ve Garibaldi Provincial Park yatıyor. Dağın güney tarafında başka küçük zirve, yüksek, Hawaii Diamond Head benzemesi için Diamond Head (bazen küçük Diamond Head) olarak bilinir. Diamond Head artık sahipsiz bir kayak önerisi ve küçük kulübenin, site oldu. Dağı Garibaldi kuzeybatı tarafında, Brohm Ridge Garibaldi İl Parkı'nın batı sınırları dışında yer almaktadır. Sharkfin sadece kuzeydoğusunda Squamish, bir yüksekliğe sahip dağın kuzeydoğu tarafında Warren Buzulu dışarı kadar yapışır. Sütunlu Tepe Garibaldi Provincial Park güneybatı ucunda hemen güneybatısında Mamquam Gölü, bir yüksekliğe sahip dağın güney tarafında yükselir. Güneyinde yükseklikleri ulaşmak ve 1978 yılından bu yana Gargoyles olarak bilinmektedir Dağı Garibaldi zirvesinde, volkanik kaya iki pinnacles.
Glaciers and icefields.
Two pocket glaciers lie right below the east side of Atwell Peak, the Diamond Glacier to the southeast and the upper Bishop Glacier to the northeast. Straight north of Atwell toward Mount Garibaldi lies a small, high-elevation ice cap called the Cheekye Glacier, the name of which is associated with Cheekye River.
A large icefield lies on the eastern and northern flanks of Mount Garibaldi called the Garibaldi Névé. Its drainage is to the east into the Pitt River, to the southwest into Garibaldi Lake. It has an area of 35 km2 and is an area of substantial snowfall with more than in many winters. The Garibaldi Névé is usually accessed from the south through the Bishop Glacier or from the north through the Sentinel Glacier.
Climbing and recreation.
Mountain climbing on Mount Garibaldi is fairly difficult; it is fairly steep-sided and involves climbing very loose rotten lava and volcanic ash. Fortunately, Mount Garibaldi has large areas of massive glaciation and extensive snowfields. The eastern and northern flanks of the mountain are smothered by the Garibaldi Névé where the finest climbing opportunities exist, making the easiest route a glacial travel or snow climb. Routes keep mostly to the alpine glaciers and snow slopes, which are abundant in winter and spring, but eventually melt in late spring and commonly vanish after June or July of most years. After the snow and ice melts, fissures and fractures can pose difficulty and danger, and avalanches from higher peaks of the mountain are a hazard. For this reason, early season, cold-weather ascents are recommended for most routes up Garibaldi.
Hiking, photography, and camping are popular in the Garibaldi area. Several trailheads provide access to the backcountry. In mid to late summer, visitors pass through meadows of wildflowers along alpine trails. Garibaldi Provincial Park is also popular for winter sports, including backcountry skiing and snowshoeing.
Geology.
Mount Garibaldi lies within the Coast Plutonic Complex, which is the single largest contiguous granite outcropping in North America. The intrusive and metamorphic rocks extend approximately along the coast of British Columbia, the Alaska Panhandle and southwestern Yukon. This is a remnant of a once vast volcanic arc called the "Coast Range Arc" that formed as a result of subduction of the Farallon and Kula Plates during the Jurassic-to-Eocene periods. In contrast, Garibaldi, Meager, Cayley and Silverthrone areas are of recent volcanic origin.
Mount Garibaldi is one of the few Cascade volcanoes that is made exclusively of dacite (Glacier Peak is the other). The mountain has a unique asymmetrical shape because its main cone was constructed atop part of a large glacier system associated with the Cordilleran Ice Sheet that has since melted away. Unlike many of the other Cascade volcanoes to the south, Garibaldi does not dominate the surrounding landscape, which consists of many high, rugged peaks. Many residents of Vancouver are therefore not aware that there is a volcano closer to the city than the more easily visible Mount Baker in Washington State.
Origins.
Mount Garibaldi began erupting about 250,000 years ago and has grown steadily since then. Like all of the Cascade volcanoes, Mount Garibaldi has its origins in the Cascadia subduction zone—a long convergent plate boundary that stretches from mid-Vancouver Island to Northern California. The subduction zone separates the Juan de Fuca, Explorer, Gorda and North American Plates. Here, the oceanic crust of the Pacific Ocean sinks beneath North America at a rate of per year. Hot magma upwelling above the descending oceanic plate creates volcanoes, and each individual volcano erupts for a few million years.
The subduction zone has existed for at least 37 million years, and has created a line of volcanoes called the Cascade Volcanic Arc which stretches over along the subduction zone. Several volcanoes in the arc are potentially active. Lassen Peak in California, which last erupted in 1917, is the southernmost historically active volcano in the arc, while Mount Meager, just north of Mount Garibaldi, which erupted about 2,350 years ago, is generally considered the northernmost. A few isolated volcanic centers northwest of Mount Meager, such as the Silverthrone Caldera, which is a circular wide, deeply dissected caldera complex, are considered by some geologists to be the northernmost member of the arc.
Structure.
Mount Garibaldi is the largest volcano in southernmost British Columbia. Like other stratovolcanoes, it is composed of many layers of hardened lava, tephra, and volcanic ash. Eruptions are explosive in nature, and the most common form is the Peléan style, which involves viscous magma, glowing avalanches of hot volcanic ash and pyroclastic flows. The source magma of this rock is classified as acidic, having high to intermediate levels of silica (as in rhyolite, dacite, or andesite). The tephra deposits have lower volume and range than the corresponding Plinian and Vulcanian eruptions.
Mount Garibaldi is known both for the very high quality exposures of its internal structure and for its conspicuous topographic anomalies, which can be attributed to the growth of the mountain onto a large glacier system and the subsequent collapse of the flanks of the volcano with the melting of the ice. The western flanks of the mountain expose basement rocks, sheared and altered quartz diorite, carved by streams and glaciers into a rugged topography with relief up to . Valleys in this jagged surface have been filled with 0.52 to 0.22 million year old dacite and andesite flows, tuff breccias, and domes, precursors of the activity at Mount Garibaldi. About of material remains in the volcano. In modern times, the apron of material around the volcano's main vent extends at least from its source in places that were covered by ice. In other areas its extent is less and its slope is steeper.
Stratovolcanoes are a common feature of subduction zones. The magma that forms them arises when water, which is trapped both in hydrated minerals and in the porous basalt rock of the upper oceanic crust, is released into mantle rock of the asthenosphere above the sinking oceanic slab. The release of water from hydrated minerals is termed "dewatering", and occurs at specific pressure/temperature conditions for specific minerals as the plate subducts to lower depths. The water freed from the subducting slab lowers the melting point of the overlying mantle rock, which then undergoes partial melting and rises due to its density relative to the surrounding mantle rock, and pools temporarily at the base of the lithosphere. The magma then rises through the crust, incorporating silica rich crustal rock, leading to a final intermediate composition. When the magma nears the surface it pools in a magma chamber under the volcano. The relatively low pressure of the magma allows water and other volatiles (CO2, S2-, Cl-) dissolved in the magma to begin to come out of solution, much like when a bottle of carbonated water is opened. Once a critical volume of magma and gas accumulates, the obstacle provided by the volcanic cone is overcome, leading to a sudden explosive eruption.
Ancestral stages of eruptive activity.
The mountain grew in three phases. Garibaldi's first phase resulted in the creation of a broad composite cone made of dacite and breccia that has been potassium-argon dated to 250,000 years old. Parts of this "proto-Garibaldi" or ancestral volcano are exposed on Garibaldi's lower northern and eastern flanks and on the upper of Brohm Ridge. Around where Columnar Peak and possibly Glacier Pikes are now located, a series of coalescing dacite lava domes were constructed. During the ensuing long period of dormancy, the Cheekye River cut a deep valley into the cone's western flank that was later filled with a glacier.
After reaching its maximum extent the Cheekye Glacier along with part of the area's ice sheet were covered with volcanic ash and fragmented debris from Garibaldi. This period of growth began with the eruption of the Atwell Peak plug dome from a ridge surrounded by the several thousand foot ice sheet. As the plug dome rose, massive sheets of broken lava crumbled as talus down its sides. Numerous Peléan pyroclastic flows (consisting of a super-heated mix of gas, ash, and pumice) accompanied these cooler avalanches, forming a fragmental cone in volume and an overall slope of 12 to 15 degrees. (Erosion has since steepened this slope.) Some of the glacial ice was melted by the eruptions, forming a small lake against Brohm Ridge's southern arm. The volcanic sandstones seen today atop Brohm Ridge were created by ash settling in this lake. 
Glacial overlap was most significant on the west and somewhat to the south. Subsequent melting of the ice sheet and its component glaciers initiated a series of avalanches and mudflows on Garibaldi's western flank that moved nearly half of the original cone's volume into the Squamish Valley. This series of debris flows carried of the mountain into the Squamish Valley where it covers to a thickness of about . Gaps left by melting ice caused minor to moderate cone distortion where the ice sheet was thin and major distortion where it was thick. The ice was thickest in and thus cone distortion was greatest over the buried Cheekye valley.
Soon before or after the buried ice had melted away, dacite lava quietly erupted from Opal Cone southeast of the Atwell Peak plug dome 10,700 to 9,300 years ago and flowed down Ring Creek on Garibaldi's southern and southwestern flanks without encountering any residual glacial ice. One of the lava flows traveled down a 30% to 35% grade over the landslide scar on the western flank. About of dacite erupted in Garibaldi's third period of activity. This lava forms a thin layer of solid rock on the southern and western sides of the volcano and contains well-defined lava flow margin levees. The Ring Creek lava flow is very unusual because lengthy lava flows are usually attained by fluid basalt flows, except the Ring Creek flow is dacite.
Current activity.
Mount Garibaldi is one of the eleven Canadian volcanoes most strongly associated with recent seismic activity; the others are Castle Rock, Mount Edziza, Mount Cayley, Hoodoo Mountain, The Volcano, Crow Lagoon, Silverthrone Caldera, Mount Meager, Wells Gray-Clearwater Volcanic Field and Nazko Cone. The mountain is informally described as "dormant" ("asleep") because the mountain has not erupted in historic times, nor does it display fumarolic activity like nearby Mount Baker. However, seismic data suggests that these volcanoes still contain living magma plumbing systems, indicating possible future eruptive activity. Although the available data does not allow a clear conclusion, these observations are further indications that some of Canada's volcanoes are potentially active, and that their associated hazards may be significant. The seismic activity correlates both with some of Canada's most youthful volcanoes, and with long-lived volcanic centers with a history of significant explosive behavior, such as Mount Garibaldi. No hot springs are known in the Garibaldi area like those found at Mount Meager and Mount Cayley, the other major volcanic complexes in the Garibaldi belt, although there are hints of anomalously high local heat flow in Table Meadows and elsewhere.
Volcanic hazards.
Volcanic eruptions in Canada rarely cause fatalities because of their remoteness and low level of activity. The only known fatality due to volcanic activity in Canada occurred at the Tseax Cone in 1775, when a long basaltic lava flow travelled down the Tseax and Nass Rivers, destroying a Nisga'a village and killing approximately 2,000 people by volcanic gases. Many towns and cities near Mount Garibaldi are home to over half of British Columbia's human population, and there is a likelihood that future eruptions will cause damage to populated areas, making Mount Garibaldi and other Garibaldi belt volcanoes a major hazard. There are significant hazards from almost all Canadian volcanoes that require hazard maps and emergency plans. Volcanoes which exhibit significant seismic activity, such as Mount Garibaldi, appear to be most likely to erupt. A significant eruption of any of the Garibaldi belt volcanoes would significantly impact Highway 99 and communities like Pemberton, Whistler and Squamish, and possibly Vancouver.
Explosive eruptions.
Explosive eruptions from Mount Garibaldi would pose a severe threat to the nearby communities of Whistler and Squamish. Although no Plinian eruptions have been identified in Garibaldi's eruptive history, even Peléan eruptions could create large amounts of ash that could significantly affect these local communities. Ash columns may rise to several hundred meters above the volcano, and due to its close proximity to Vancouver this could pose a threat for air traffic. Melting of leftover glacial ice covering the Mount Garibaldi area may cause floods, lahars, or debris flows that could possibly threaten small communities such as Brackendale. Highway 99 is already plagued by landslides and debris flows from the steep rugged Coast Mountains. An eruption creating floods could demolish sections of the highway. Flooding and debris flows could also have severe issues for the salmon fishery on the Squamish, Cheakamus, and Mamquam rivers. In addition, explosive eruptions and the associated ash column could cause short-and long-term water supply difficulties for Vancouver and most of the lower mainland. The catchment area for the Greater Vancouver watershed is close to the Garibaldi area. Pyroclastic fall could also have a deleterious effect on the ice fields to the east of Mount Garibaldi, causing more melting and spring flooding. This in turn could endanger water supplies from Pitt Lake as well as fisheries on the Pitt River.
Lava flows.
The hazard from lava flows would be low to moderate because the nature of the lavas would prevent them from travelling far from their source, even though the Ring Creek lava flow ends only from Squamish. Magma with high to intermediate levels of silica (as in andesite, dacite or rhyolite) commonly move slowly and typically cover small areas to form steep-sided mounds called lava domes. Lava domes often grow by the extrusion of many individual flows less than thick over a period of several months or years. Such flows will overlap one another and typically move less than a few meters per hour. Lava flows with high to intermediate levels of silica rarely extend more than from their source; for example, Garibaldi's long Ring Creek dacite lava flow.
Landslides.
In the past, Garibaldi has had large debris flows. A section of the mountain collapsed into the Cheakamus River valley when the glacier Garibaldi was built on melted, creating a jagged unstable slope at the head of the Cheekye River. Repeated landslides from this steep cliff have created a huge debris fan at the mouth of the Cheekye River just north of Brackendale called the Cheekye Fan. Danger from future collapses have limited the growth of Brackendale onto the fan.
The steep northern edge of The Barrier in the Garibaldi area has partly collapsed several times, the most recent being in 1855-56. This collapse created a large boulder field below it, which gave Rubble Creek its name. Danger from future collapses prompted the provincial government to declare the area immediately below it unsafe for human habitation in 1981. This led to the evacuation of the small resort village of Garibaldi nearby, and the relocation of residents to new recreational subdivisions away from the hazard zone. Although imminent danger is unlikely, special regulations exist to warn potential danger and to minimize the risk to life and property in the event of a landslide.
Monitoring.
Currently, Mount Garibaldi is not monitored closely enough by the Geological Survey of Canada to ascertain how active the volcano's magma system is. The existing network of seismographs has been established to monitor tectonic earthquakes and is too far away to provide a good indication of what is happening beneath the mountain. It may sense an increase in activity if the volcano becomes very restless, but this may only provide a warning for a large eruption. It might detect activity only once the volcano has started erupting.
A possible way to detect an eruption is studying Garibaldi's geological history since every volcano has its own pattern of behaviour, in terms of its eruption style, magnitude and frequency, so that its future eruption is expected to be similar to its previous eruptions.
While there is a likelihood of Canada being critically effected by local or close by volcanic eruptions argues that some kind of improvement program is required. Benefit-cost thoughts are critical to dealing with natural hazards. However, a benefit-cost examination needs correct data about the hazard types, magnitudes and occurrences. These do not exist for volcanoes in British Columbia or elsewhere in Canada in the detail required.
Other volcanic techniques, such as hazard mapping, displays a volcano's eruptive history in detail and speculates an understanding of the hazardous activity that could possibly be expected in the future. At present no hazard maps have been created for Mount Garibaldi because the level of knowledge is insufficient due to its remoteness. A large volcanic hazard program has never existed within the Geological Survey of Canada. The majority of information has been collected in a lengthy, separate way from the support of several employees, such as volcanologists and other geologic scientists. Current knowledge is best established at Mount Meager north of Mount Garibaldi and is likely to rise considerably with a temporary mapping and monitoring project. Knowledge at Mount Garibaldi and other volcanoes in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt is not as established, but certain contributions are being done at least Mount Cayley. An intensive program classifying infrastructural exposure near all young Canadian volcanoes and quick hazard assessments at each individual volcanic edifice associated with recent seismic activity would be in advance and would produce a quick and productive determination of priority areas for further efforts.
The existing network of seismographs to monitor tectonic earthquakes has existed since 1975, although it remained small in population until 1985. Apart from a few short-term seismic monitoring experiments by the Geological Survey of Canada, no volcano monitoring has been accomplished at Mount Garibaldi or at other volcanoes in Canada at a level approaching that in other established countries with historically active volcanoes. Active or restless volcanoes are usually monitored using at least three seismographs all within approximately , and frequently within , for better sensitivity of detection and reduced location errors, particularly for earthquake depth. Such monitoring detects the risk of an eruption, offering a forecasting capability which is important to mitigating volcanic risk. Currently Mount Garibaldi does not have a seismograph closer than . With increasing distance and declining numbers of seismographs used to indicate seismic activity, the prediction capability is reduced because earthquake location accuracy and depth decreases, and the network becomes less accurate. The inaccurate earthquake locations in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt are a few kilometers, and in more isolated northern regions they are up to . The location magnitude level in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt is about magnitude 1 to 1.5, and elsewhere it is magnitude 1.5 to 2. At carefully monitored volcanoes both the located and noticed events are recorded and surveyed immediately to improve the understanding of a future eruption. Undetected events are not recorded or surveyed in British Columbia immediately, nor in an easy-to-access process.
In countries like Canada it is possible that small precursor earthquake swarms might go undetected, particularly if no events were observed; more significant events in larger swarms would be detected but only a minor subdivision of the swarm events would be complex to clarify them with confidence as volcanic in nature, or even associate them with an individual volcanic edifice.
Garibaldi Lake volcanic field.
Mount Garibaldi is associated with a group of small volcanoes that form the Garibaldi Lake volcanic field. An unusual volcanic structure called The Table is located between Garibaldi Lake and Mount Garibaldi. This several-hundred-foot-high flat-topped volcano is made of layers of andesitic dacite that are arranged like a stack of more or less equal sized pancakes. The Table was formed in the early Holocene at a time when the Cordilleran ice sheet covered the region. As the volcano's lava rose it melted the part of the ice sheet above The Table's vent, creating space for the lava to move into. Repeated eruptions constructed the steep-walled stack of lava seen today.
The Black Tusk is a large spire of extensively eroded dark volcanic rock that is shaped like a Walrus tusk. It is considered to be the remnant of an extinct andesitic stratovolcano which formed between about 1.3 and 1.1 million years ago.
Mount Price, west of Garibaldi Lake, 5 km south of The Black Tusk, was formed in three stages of activity, dating back 1.1 million years, the latest of which produced two large lava flows from Clinker Peak during the early Holocene that ponded against the retreating continental ice sheet and formed The Barrier, containing Garibaldi Lake.
Cinder Cone stands above a gap between two arms of Helmet Glacier on Garibaldi's flanks. During summer its crater is filled with a snow melt lake.
