Ayşe Kulin
Ayşe Kulin (born 1941 in İstanbul) is a Turkish contemporary novelist and columnist.
Biography.
Kulin was born in Turkey in 1941. Her father, Muhittin Kulin, of Bosniak origin, was one of the first civil engineers in Turkey who founded the State Water Institution; he was soon appointed first director of this institution. Her mother who is a Circassian, Sitare Hanim, is the granddaughter of one of the Ottoman economy ministers.
Kulin graduated in literature from the American College for Girls in Arnavutköy. She released a collection of short stories titled "Güneşe Dön Yüzünü" in 1984. A short story from this called "Gülizar" was made into a film titled "Kırık Bebek" in 1986, for which she won a screenplay award from the Turkish culture ministry. Kulin worked as a screen writer, cinematographer and producer for many films, television series and advertisements. In 1986, she won the Best Cinematographer Award from the Theatre Writers association for her work in the television series "Ayaşlı ve Kiracıları".
In 1996, she wrote a biography of Münir Nureddin Selçuk titled "Bir Tatlı Huzur". With a short story called "Foto Sabah Resimleri" she won the Haldun Taner Short Story Award the same year and the Sait Faik Story Prize the next year. In 1997, she was chosen as the "Writer of the year" by the İstanbul Communication Faculty for her biographical novel "Adı Aylin", She won the same award the next year for her short story "Geniş Zamanlar". In November 1999, she wrote a novel called "Sevdalinka" about the Bosnian War and in 2000, a biographical novel called "Füreyya". In June 2001, she put out a novel titled "Köprü" about drama in Turkey's eastern provinces and how they shaped the republic's early history.
In May 2002, Kulin wrote a novel titled "Nefes Nefes'e" about the Turkish diplomats who saved in the lives of Jews during the holocaust in World War 2.
She has married twice, her latest novels Hayat and Huzun describe her life with her spouses, Mehmet Sarper and Eren Kemahli. Both ended in divorce but she bore 4 sons from the marriages.
Armenian Genocide controversy.
In an interview Kulin stated, that the Armenian Genocide can not be compared with the Holocaust because the Turks had a reason to "butcher" the Armenians and that such things may occur in times of war. Following her remarks a petition was created which called upon to boycott her books.Later she disclaimed her statement about Armenian genocide and apologized from Turkish Armenian society if she is misunderstood.
English language bibliography.
Four of Kulin's novels and one short story collection have been published in English language translation.
Photo "Sabah" Pictures.
Photo "Sabah" Pictures (Turkish title: "Foto Sabah Resimleri") is a 1998 collection of three inter-connected short stories by Turkish writer Ayşe Kulin, which was awarded the 1998 Haldun Taner Short Story Award, the 1999 Sait Faik Story Prize, and was republished in 2004 by Epsilon Yayınevi in English language translation by Martina Keskintepe.
Last Train to Istanbul.
Last Train to Istanbul (Turkish title: "Nefes Nefese") is a 2002 novel by Turkish writer Ayşe Kulin, which was republished in 2006 by Everest Yayınları in English language translation by John W. Baker.
Aylin.
Aylin (Turkish title: "Adı: Aylin") is a 1997 novel by Turkish writer Ayşe Kulin, which was republished in 2007 by Remzi Kitabevi in English language translation by Dara Çolakoğlu.
Face to Face.
Face to Face (Turkish title: "Bir Gün") is a 2005 novel by Turkish writer Ayşe Kulin, which was republished in 2008 by Everest Yayınları in English language translation by John W. Baker.
Farewell.
Farewell (Turkish title: "Veda") is a 2008 novel by Turkish writer Ayşe Kulin, which was republished in 2009 by Everest Yayınları in English language translation by Kenneth J. Dakan.
