Disney English
Disney English (迪士尼英语) is a subsidiary of Disney Publishing Worldwide that specializes in English language training for young learners, ages 2 to 12, in China using Disney characters. Classes use a curriculum put together by teaching professionals from China, Europe, and the United States. The program uses the "Disney Immersive Storytelling Approach" which creates an environment incorporating Disney characters to make learning more fun for children.
The first Disney-operated learning center opened in Shanghai, China in October 2008. As of November 2012, there are 44 Disney English Learning Centers in 10 cities across China. By 2015, Disney plans to expand the program to 148 schools teaching 150,000 children annually with operating earnings expected to surpass $100 million.
The program is designed to help extend Disney's brand in China through childhood marketing and coincides with the development of the Shanghai Disneyland Park.
Program.
Disney English uses an immersive environment approach that focuses on the claims of Multiple Intelligences and Experiential learning while focusing on communication. The program incorporates singing, interactive games, role-play and other activities aiming to engage children with the language. Classes average only 12 with a maximum of 15 and are given 1.5 to 2 hours per week. The program costs about 12,000 yuan for 96 hours of instruction.
In 2009 former associate publisher Lynn Waggoner moved to the west coast to run the creative team which makes the content and curriculum used in Disney English's schools. An advisory panel of 19 international educators and early childhood experts to the program include Dr. Jun Liu, head of the English Department at the University of Arizona; Dr. Renee Cherow-O'leary, Professor, English Education, Teacher's College, Columbia University; Dr. Peiya Gu, Professor of English at Soochow University (Suzhou); and Dr. Dilin Liu, Professor of English and Coordinator of the TESOL/Applied Linguistics Program at University of Alabama.
Teachers.
Classes are taught by native English speaking foreign trainers and local bilingual assistant trainers. While teaching, Disney English's foreign trainers are trained in TEFL-C.
Classrooms.
Each classroom is equipped with an interactive whiteboard, an additional projection wall, and a sound system. A typical center will have 5 to 10 classrooms, each themed with a specific Disney property, for example: Snow White, The Lion King, Cars, Peter Pan, Tinker Bell, Winnie The Pooh, Finding Nemo and Toy Story.
History.
As of November 2012, there are a total of 44 Disney English centers in 10 cities across China, including Shanghai, Beijing, Suzhou, Tianjin, Hangzhou, Ningbo, Nanjing, Chengdu, Wuhan and Guangzhou.
The opening of additional learning centers coincides with the development of the Shanghai Disneyland Park. The entry into the English teaching market is expected to provide Disney with additional growth opportunities.
Counterfeit schools.
With the launch of the Disney owned program, several unauthorized schools using the Disney name or characters have been closed.
Future.
The company foresees continued rapid expansion: teaching 150,000 children by 2015. Russell Hampton, during his time as president of Disney Publishing Worldwide, anticipated operating earnings of over $100M in the next five years. In those five years Disney English expects to have gone from 11 schools to 148 schools across China with Shanghai Disneyland to be opened in 2014.
After China, Disney English plans to hit other emerging markets, including Brazil, adapting the product to meet the unique needs of each country.
Criticism.
In August 2014, Disney English was sued in an American court for subjecting workers and learners to highly polluted air in the classrooms. Disney English chose to settle out of court.
The program has been criticized as an effort to market Disney in China. "US entertainment giant Disney saw this as a unique opportunity to teach English to small children, while at the same time establishing an of its branded products and characters across the country."
Andy Mooney, Disney's chairman of Disney Consumer Products, has responded to critics stating that "We never saw this as an effort to teach the Disney brand and Disney characters" and that Disney has "set out to teach Chinese kids English."
