International Allies F.C.
International Allies FC is a Ghanaian professional football club based in Accra, Greater Accra. They are competing in the Ghana Premier League.
History.
The club was founded in October 1996 by Omar Nasser El-Eter, Rabeh Nasser El-Eter and the late Robert Tetteh, a former player for SS74 team of the seventies, Accra Great Olympics and Ghana Black Stars.
In 1997, Inter Allies discovered our first talented player, Michael Coffie who played in the FIFA U-17 World Cup with the Ghana National team, The Black Starlets.
He started the club in the third division league and by the year 2000, the club qualified to play in the second division league.
The club won the second division league title on three occasions, in 2001, we transferred three of our young talented players into the Ghana Premier League and for the second time he had a player play in 2001 FIFA U-20 World Cup in Argentina with the Black Satellites Squad.
In 2005, the club produced three players for 2005 CAF U-17 African Cup of Nations in Gambia namely Jonathan Quartey, Emmanuel Banahene and Solomon Addy that won Ghana the silver medal which automatically qualified Black Starlets for the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Peru. The above named players are currently still playing for the Ghana national football team.
In 2007, to prove how good the club are at what he do, that is producing young talent, Inter produced another three player for the Black Starlets squad that played in the 2007 CAF U-17 Tournament in Togo namely David Addy, Moses Otiboe and Nathaniel Asamoah.
In the 2007/2008 Ghana Premier League season, Inter have seven players currently playing namely Emmanuel Banahene (Kpando Heart of Lions), Samuel Ayew Yeboah and Isaac Amponsah (Liberty Professionals FC), Nathaniel Asamoah, David Addy and Daniel Coffie (Wa All Stars F.C.) and Simon Martey (Asante Kotoko).
After several years of hard work, they have finally achieved their biggest goal, having David Addy and Emmanuel Banahene in the Senior national team the Black Stars.
The club have in 2008 a player (Dominic Oduro) playing for FC Dallas in the United States. He was scouted while playing for the University of Ghana, Legon by the Virginia Commonwealth University. Inter also have one player, Jonathan Quartey playing for Kaizer Chiefs FC in the South African Premier League.
In January, 2008, the team took part in the 60th Edition of the Torneo Mondiale Di Calcio "Coppa Carnevale" from 28 January - 11 February. In the 2012/2013 season, six players left the club and joined to bigger teams world wide Laud Ofosuhene joined to Portuguese Rio Ave F.C., Clifford Aboagye signed with Serie A top club Udinese Calcio, Aminu Abdallah joined to Canadian based Major League Soccer club Vancouver Whitecaps FC and Fatau Mohammed signed with Swedish lower lige side Vimmerby IF. In June 2013 defeated Danbort FC and qualified first time for the promotion to the Ghana Premier League. The club will host his home games in the 2013/2014 Ghana Premier League season in the Tema Sports Stadium, while the origin home stadium Ho Sports Stadium is too small.
Current squad.
"As of 3 January 2014"
Notable players.
These players have famous played during his active career with the club.
Reserve.
The club has a Farm team based in the Gold Coast City, which played his games in the Division Two League Greater Accra Regional Football Association Middle League, as part of the Accra Youth Soccer Academy Organisation.
