Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah
Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah is an Indian sitcom produced by Neel Telefilms. The show went on-air on 28 July 2008 on SAB TV. The show is based on the column "Duniya Ne Oondha Chashmah" written by columnist and journalist Taarak Mehta for the Gujarati weekly magazine "Chitralekha."
In May 2014 "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah" was ranked in the list of top 10 fiction shows with a TVT of 8096.
Plot.
"Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah" revolves around the happenings of Gokuldham Co-Operative Housing Society in Mumbai, a society well known for its culture, unity, the love and care for each other and the fun that happens there. It is a funny show.
It is based on the day-to-day life of the members who live in Gokuldham Co-Operative Housing Society. 
The characters include the families of the Gadas, a Kutchi Gujarati Jain family; the Bhides, a Marathi family; the Hathis, a family, Sodhis, a Punjabi family with a Sikh husband and a Parsi wife; the Iyers, a Tamil family with a Tamil husband and a Bengali wife;the Mehtas, a Gujarati family. There is many cast but they all stay like a family.
There are solo recurring characters such as Reporter Popatlal Pandey from Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, Abdul, the owner of the small general store in the society; Sundarlal who is Gujarati who lives in Ahmedabad, also brother in law of Jethalal Gada; Bawri, who is Bageshwar's love ; Natwarlal Prabhashankarlal Udhiawala/ Nattu kaka, Jethalal's Shop Manager and his Nephew Bageshwar Dadukh Udhaiwala / Bagha, Pinku Diwan, Matka King Mohanlal, reporter Rita Shrivastav etc. The stories shown in the episodes are associated with these characters who often get trapped in inconvenience usually surfacing from petty daily-life activities or any similar task. At the end of each episode, the host Taarak Mehta gives an outline of the story and a teaser for the upcoming episodes.
Guest appearances.
Several Bollywood actors have appeared in the sitcom to promote their upcoming films and TV series including Taarak Mehta, Taarak Mehta's daughter, Varun Dhawan, Raju Srivastav, Satish Kaushik, Ruslaan Mumtaz, Sheena Shahabadi, Vinay Pathak, Shreyas Talpade, Sunil Pal, Sharman Joshi, Vatsal Seth, Irfan Pathan, Salman Khan, Anang Desai, Rajeev Mehta, Nimisha Vakharia, Jamnadas Majethia, Supriya Pathak, Shahrukh Khan, Sajid Khan, Asin, John Abraham, Pakhi Tyrewala, Abhishek Bachchan, Ajay Devgan, Shreyas Talpade, Randeep Hooda, Satish Kaushik, Indira Krishnan, Hemant Chauhan, Darsheel Safary, The Smurfs(as in the movie), Falguni Pathak, Saroj Khan, Boman Irani, Sharman Joshi, Rohit Shetty, Prachi Desai, Jamnadas Majethia , Ranbir Kapoor, Paresh Rawal, Sanjai Mishra, Akshay Kumar, Hritik Roshan, Vinay Pathak, Vandana Pathak, Kareena Kapoor, Sonakshi Sinha, Priyanka Chopra, Amitabh Bachchan, Indira Krishnan, Gia Manek, Sabri Brothers, Vidya Balan, Bipasha Basu, Vikram Bhatt, Ayushmann Khurrana, Rishi Kapoor, Neetu Singh.
Production and promotion.
The major part of the shooting is done in Mumbai. However some parts of the show have also been shot in places such as Gujarat, New Delhi and in overseas locations such as London, Brussels,Paris and Hong Kong.
After "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah" completed 1000 episodes on 6 November 2012, producer Asit Kumar Modi had announced that he wanted to make a film on the sitcom. He said: "Yes, I am planning to make a movie on "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah". The film is in its scripting stage. I have to take this call because of the viewers' request. They have been requesting me to make a film on "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah"". He further told: "In my film, I assure, I will involve film celebrities. I have already approached many of them. I will soon make an official announcement. These days comedy films are working very well. So I believe this is the right time. I am very excited about the film. The film will go on the floors in 2013". He has decided to shoot the film on a different canvas as he does not want the audience to feel that they are watching yet another episode of the serial."
In October 2013, Joshi and Vakani participated in a promotional event held in New Jersey at the Expo Center.
