Buket Uzuner
Buket Uzuner (born 3 October 1955, Ankara, Turkey) is a Turkish writer, author of novels, short stories and travelogues. Travel Literature She studied biology and environmental science and has conducted research and presented lectures at universities in Turkey, Norway, the United States, and Finland. Her fiction has been translated into eight languages, including Spanish, English, Italian, Greek, Romanian, Hebrew, Korean, and Bulgarian.
Buket Uzuner travels as "solo woman backpacker" since 1980s including "inter-rail" tours in Europe and in three other continents while keep writing her travel memoirs. Her first travelogue The Travel Notes of A Brunette was published in 1988 and sold more than 300.000 copies. Uzuner wrote two more travel books as Travel Notes of An Urban Romantic which questions the meaning of exoticism and New York Logbook which are all collected lately in Travel Library of Buket Uzuner
In 2013 her novel "İstanbullular" is published in USA by Dalkey Archive Press with the title of "I Am Istanbul" translated into English by Kenneth J. Dakan She is also celebrating in 2013 the 22nd year's anniversary of her first novel "İki Yeşil Susamuru, Anneleri, Babaları, Sevgilileri ve Diğerleri" (Two Green Otters, Mothers, Fathers, Lovers and All the Others) translated by Alex Dawe with its 50th edition which sold over 1 million copies in Turkey and already a contemporary classic.
Uzuner's books have been on the Turkish best-seller lists since 1992. They are taught in a number of Turkish universities and high schools.
In 1993, Buket Uzuner was awarded Turkey's Yunus Nadi prize for the novel "The Sound of Fishsteps", and in 1998 Mediterranean Waltz was named novel of the year by the University of Istanbul. She was made an honorary member of the International Writing Program, IWP of University of Iowa in 1996. She was also honored with a certificate of appreciation from the Senate of Middle East Technical University; METU in 2004.
She has referred to Turkish poet and novelist Attilâ İlhan, and Cervantes, Dostoyevski, Doris Lessing, Turkish woman writer Sevgi Soysal as major influences on her work.
English language bibliography.
Five of Uzuner's novels and one short story collection have been published in English language translation.
Mediterranean Waltz.
Mediterranean Waltz (Turkish title: "Kumral Ada - Mavı Tuna") is a 1997 novel by Turkish writer Buket Uzuner, which was awarded the 1998 Novel Prize of Istanbul University and was republished in 2000 by Remzi Kitabevi in English language translation by Pelin Ariner.
A Cup of Turkish Coffee.
A 2001 short story collection by Turkish writer Buket Uzuner published by Milet Books, in dual Turkish and English language translation by Pelin Ariner, as part of its series of Turkish-English Short Story Collections.
The publisher states that the author, "takes us into the memories and dreams of children and adults, and explores shared history, love and attachments – to family, lovers and places." Whilst a review in "Writing in Education" concludes that the author, "in "The Other Twin" notably, is subtle, penetrating about human nature, and well able to project a powerful maxim or a sarcastic image."
The Sound of Fishsteps.
The Sound of Fishsteps (Turkish title: "Balık İzlerinin Sesi") is a 1993 novel by Turkish writer Buket Uzuner, which was awarded the 1993 Yunus Nadi Novel Prize and was republished in 2002 by Remzi Kitabevi in English language translation by Pelin Ariner.
The Long White Cloud - Galipoli.
The Long White Cloud - Galipoli (Turkish title: "Uzun Beyaz Bulut - Gelibolu") is a 2001 novel by Turkish writer Buket Uzuner, which was a national bestseller and was republished in 2002 by Remzi Kitabevi in English language translation by Pelin Ariner.
Istanbullu.
Istanbullu is a 2007 novel by Turkish writer Buket Uzuner, which was republished in 2008 by Everest Yayınlari in English language translation by Kenneth Dakan.
