¿Dónde está Elisa?
¿Dónde está Elisa? (Where is Elisa?) is a Chilean telenovela, that first appeared on television on April 21 of 2009 in TVN. It is written by Pablo Illanes, with scripts from Pablo Illanes, Nona Fernández, Hugo Morales and Josefina Fernández and is directed by María Eugenia Rencoret. In 2010, the telenovela was remade by the Telemundo network in the USA, aTV in Turkey entitled Kızım Nerede? and MD Entertainment in Indonesia which is titled Di Mana Melani. In the Philippines, ABS-CBN is doing a remake entitled "Nasaan Ka, Elisa?".
The story involves the events of the disappearance of Elisa (Montserrat Prats), one of the daughters of the couple formed by Raimundo Domínguez (Francisco Melo) and Francisca Correa (Sigrid Alegría), who after 17 years of marriage become so desperate that their own marriage is in danger.
Inspiration of the story comes from the real life drama involving vanished British native Madeleine McCann in Portugal. However, unlike the McCann story, the soap opera features a teenager who disappears and not a small child. The disappearance in a local club makes the story very similar to that of Jorge Matute Johns, a Chilean youngster who disappeared and was never seen again after leaving a party at a local disco. The list of suspects is long and includes family members, fellow students, and friends of the teenager who frequented the same places that she did prior to her disappearance.
Production began on August 14, 2008.
The first infomercial or preview of the production was shown on Friday March 13, 2009.
Plot.
The lives of the Domínguez family will change forever based on the events surrounding the disappearance of Elisa (Montserrat Prats), one of the daughters of the marriage of Raimundo Domínguez (Francisco Melo) and Francisca Correa (Sigrid Alegría).
Once she disappears, we begin to learn the secrets of every member of the family as well as those of her friends. Paranoia sets in, the past is dragged up, matters that were supposed to be buried reappear and recriminations among family members start.
All these events lead to a long list of suspects, among them family members (uncles, cousins, and her parents), fellow students, former employees of the Domínguez family and several friends who used to frequent the same places she did prior to her disappearance.
Cast.
Other Frequently Appearing Cast:
Special Cast
Remake.
It remade by Indonesia as "Di Mana Melani?" and India as "Laut Aao Trisha"
