Yasemin Mori
Yasemin Savgı (born 4 March 1982, Istanbul) is a Turkish alternative rock singer.
Biography.
As daughter of Kuleli Military High School and Istanbul State Academy of Fine Arts-graduated architect father and Edirne-born mother worked as a sales chief on Turkish Airlines, her original last name was "Savgı". She chooses to go by the scene alias "", which means "girl" in various ethnic Balkan Turkic dialects, and which was a name she was called by many of her friends as a young girl.
She composed her first song when she was a teenager with contributions of her elder sister's music record share. At a Kings of Convenience concert on Istanbul in July 6, 2005, she invaded the stage by dancing on her own. Her first album "Hayvanlar" was released on 10 July 2008 by Irmak Plak. Mori released her second studio album "Deli Bando" in October 2012 after three years of development, working with members of Korhan Futacı ve Kara Orkestra and Boğaziçi Jazz Choir.
Mori prefers to live as a vegetarian, because of a memory about a fish restaurant in her childhood. She occasionally shares her works and announcements via her own Tumblr page since August 2009, as a former student of the Department of Graphic Design at Bilkent University.
Discography.
Other works.
Yasemin Mori features most of these works at her concerts, but she did not intend to release them in a new album, as she stated on MTV Turkey's talk show BeniMTV broadcast at October 2009 until started working on development of "Deli Bando" in 2010.
Music videos.
Mori received mainstream attention with her first video "Aslında Bir Konu Var" posted from her MySpace account on May 2008. It was featured after the launch of MySpace's Turkish version. Her second video, "Mutsuz Punk," was released on Yasemin Mori's multiple social network accounts on 27 August 2009. Her third video, "Nolur Nolur Nolur," was released in November 2009.
As a part of "Deli Bando", she first released "Dünya" as video single in 5 July 2012, which features short clips during her trip in Brazil. After the official release of the 2nd album in October 2012, the second video released to naming track "Deli Bando" on 11 January 2013, features the band working with Mori herself. Third video "Uçurumlar" released in October 14, 2013 taken on Kaş. The fourth and recent video "Işığa Geldi Çocuklar" released in 8 January 2014 animated by Mori's school friend Seha Can.
