Tuba Büyüküstün
Tuba Büyüküstün (born 5 July 1982), is a Turkish actress.
Early life.
Tuba Büyüküstün was born in Istanbul on July 5, 1982. She graduated from Doguş High School and studied Costume and Stage Design at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University in Istanbul. When she was at university she started to act in commercials. After she met Tomris Giritlioğlu, she started acting.
Career.
The series "Sultan Makamı" which was shown at Channel D and directed by Aydın Bulut in 2003 was her first series and she acted in the last four episodes. Directed by Çağan Irmak, she aroused attention in the series "Çemberimde Gül Oya". She played the role "Zarife" and it was shown at Channel D in 2004. In the same year, she portrayed the character "Gülizar" in the same called television film and received an award for "Best Actress" at the Serbia and Montenegro International TV Festival Bar. Her final breakthrough was in the series "Ihlamurlar Altında" published in 2005 and directed by Aydın Bulut. She shared the leading role with Sinan Tuzcu and Bülent İnal. In the same year playing a "Aysun" in the movie "Babam ve Oğlum" and was directed by Çağan Irmak. Playing a teacher in 2006 in the movie "Sınav" which was directed by Ömer Faruk Sorak, she had the opportunity to act next to Jean-Claude Van Damme. In Antakya, she played in "Asi" alongside Murat Yıldırım and Çetin Tekindor directed by Cevdet Mercan in 2007. In those years, "Çemberimde Gül Oya", "Ihlamurlar Altında" and "Asi" were shown in the Arab world. She had a substantial role in the expansion of Turkish series abroad. Because of the high ratings in 67 countries, "Asi" was nominated as "Best Soap Opera" at the 51st Monte-Carlo Television Festival. In 2012, her first leading role in cinema was in the movie "Yüreğine Sor" by Yusuf Kurçenli. Afterwards she acted next to Cansel Elçin in the series "Gönülçelen". At the end of 2012, she returned after a break of one a half years on screen by sharing the leading role with İlker Aksum at the series "20 Dakika". She was nominated for the 42nd International Emmy Award for Best Actress for her performance in "20 Dakika" series, after being country's first entry. She is now sharing the leading role, together with Engin Akyürek in Kara Para Aşk series which has been aired on Channel ATV since March 2014. 
Personal life.
On 28 July 2011, she married the Turkish actor Onur Saylak in Paris, France. On 19 January 2012, she gave birth to twin girls, Maya and Toprak.
