Murat Yıldırım (actor)
Murat Yıldırım (born 13 April 1979) is a Turkish actor who gained fame and popularity as a result of having appeared in many popular tv series.
Early life.
Murat Yıldırım was born in Konya, Turkey. His father was a teacher of literature. His parents are originally from Mardin. Due to his father's job Murat grew up between Konya and Adana. He has two sisters.
He graduated in Mechanical Engineering from the Yildiz Technical University in Istanbul, Turkey and he has a keen interest in mathematics. His interest in music and theatre started early on in his life which led him to join the drama department of his high-school. As a student, Yildirim played drums in a band. During his studying period he also started performing in the University's theater and attending acting lessons.
Career.
After performing three years in theater, a writer who watched him perform in a comedy recommended him to a production company.Thus he played a minor role in "Olumsuz Ask" which was written by Yilmaz Erdogan.Later he performed in "Bütün Cocuklarim" and in "Büyük Yalan".He also played in the Turkish film "Organize İşler".
His first leading role was in the series "Fitrina" where he met his future wife Burçin Terzioğlu,the same year he got nominated for Golden Orange Award for Best Actor for his leading role in the film "Araf".
In 2007 he starred in "Asi".This series has been televised in 73 countries and has been nominated as "Best Soap Opera" at the 51st Monte-Carlo Television Festival. The success of the show consolidated his status as a leading man and gained him popularity.
During the filming of "Asi" he played in the movie "Güz sancisi" about Istanbul Riots.
After the end of "Asi" Yildirim agreed to play in "Aşk ve Ceza", which is also broadcast in many countries. In 2012 he starred as "Ecevit" in the successful series "Suskunlar". In 2014, Yıldırım will return on screens, after a break of one a half years, portraying "Lieutenant Sadık Turan" in the movie "Kırımlı" based on the autobiographical novel "Korkunç Yıllar". Cansu Dere will be his partner in the new series. 
