Halit Ergenç
Halit Ergenç () (born 30 April 1970 in İstanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish actor.
Biography.
Halit Ergenç was born as the son of actor Sait Ergenç on 30 April 1970 in İstanbul. He completed his secondary education at Beşiktaş Atatürk High School in 1989 and entered İstanbul Technical University to study Marine Engineering. He left after one year to study opera at Mimar Sinan University and supported himself working as a computer operator and marketer. He briefly worked as a backing vocalist and dancer for Ajda Pekkan and Leman Sam.
In 1996 he met Mabel, Ergenç began acting at the Dormen Theatre and had his first leading role in the musical The King and I. He established himself on television with his part in the series "Kara Melek".
He continued working in theatre with such plays as "Kiss Me, Kate", "Tatlı Charity", "Beni Seviyor", "Kral ve Ben", "Amphitrion 2000", "Evita", "Hayalet and Ötekiler" and "Şarkılar Susarsa". Following appearances in the series "Köşe Kapmaca" and "Böyle mi Olacaktı", he went to New York and acted in the musical "The Adventures of Zak".
In 2000, he acted in the films "Hiç Yoktan Aşk" and " Ölümün El Yazısı "and then the series "Dedem, Gofret ve Ben" and "Zerda" where she starred opposite Ece Uslu. Then, he had appearances in a number of plays such as ""Bugün Git Yarın Gel", "Popcorn", "Arapsaçı" and "Sevgilime Göz Kulak Ol". In 2004], he starred in the series "Aliye" with Sanem Çelik and Nejat İşler.
In 2005 and 2006, Ergenç acted in the films "Babam ve Oğlum" directed by Çağan Irmak, "The Net 2.0", "Tramway" and "İlk Aşk". Beginning in 2006, he starred as Onur Aksal in the hit series "Binbir Gece" which was on air until 2009. During this period he also had roles in the films "Devrim Arabaları" and "Acı Aşk". Ergenç also starred as Mustafa Kemal Atatürk in the film "Dersimiz Atatürk". He is currently starring in the hit series "Muhteşem Yüzyıl" (Magnificent Century)
After the TV serial "Magnificent Century", he has also become very famous in the Turkish speaking countries such as Azerbaijan, Macedonia, Bosnia Herzagovinia, Albania as well as Bulgaria and Romania. He is now number 1 star throughout the Arab countries that they are very much interested in Turkish TV series.
Personal life.
Ergenç's mother is of Albanian descent.
He is married to actress Bergüzar Korel with whom he has a son.
He has stated that he likes Zeki Demirkubuz's style and Ferzan Özpetek's emotion, but prefers to work the most with Reha Erdem and Çağan Irmak who he describes as both young and talented directors.
