Behzat Ç. Bir Ankara Polisiyesi
Behzat Ç. Bir Ankara Polisiyesi (Behzat Ç. An Ankara Detective Story) is a crime-and-detective television series based on the novels "Her Temas İz Bırakır" ("Every Contact Leaves a Trace") and "Son Hafriyat" {"Last Excavation") by Emrah Serbes. The series takes place in Ankara. It first aired on 19 September, 2010, on Star TV. The series is directed by Serdar Akar, who rose to fame by directing the film "Gemide (On Board)" in 1999.
Plot.
Behzat Ç. is a rough, violent, and morally ambiguous police officer who is the head of the homicide department in Ankara. His team consists of five people: Harun, Hayalet (Ghost), Akbaba (Vulture), Cevdet, Selim and Eda. Behzat Ç and his team usually work together with the public prosecutor Esra, who later becomes his love interest. They chase criminals with perseverance and solve murders while sometimes (and usually unwillingly) getting involved in different cases.
Character background.
Behzat Ç. graduated from the police academy in 1985. He does not care much about his superiors — not even the law in some cases. He only follows his inner conscience and instincts. This often brings him trouble. Even though he graduated from the police academy many years ago, suspensions and reprimands have kept him in the same position for years while his colleagues have reached the top of their careers.
After an unsuccessful marriage, he no longer trusts women. The only woman he seems to care about is his daughter Berna. During the first season, Berna is found dead, which looks like a case of suicide at first glance, but turns out to be a murder. Behzat Ç. and his team attempt to solve the secrets behind her murder. During the ordeal, he becomes close to his ex-wife, but she turns down the relationship. He gets in a relationship with a club singer named Gönül and then becomes interested in Esra. The main suspect in Berna's death is flamboyant mob boss and businessman, Ercüment Çözer, who is tracked down successfully by Behzat Ç., but flees abroad using his deep political connections.
At the end of the first season, Berna's killer is revealed to be Şule, a girl who has been living with Behzat Ç. for months and whom Behzat Ç. treats as a second daughter. Later in the episode, Şule also confesses to Behzat Ç. that she is his biological daughter. The final episode of the first season was considered by many critics as the best season finale of a Turkish TV series.
The second season begins a few months the events of the first season. During the first episode of the second season, Behzat Ç. does not speak (which was a running theme for most of the second novel, "Son Hafriyat"). This season also involves a new main plot as well as numerous new and old subplots that introduce and explore new characters. The main plot of the second season is the search for the Parmak Kesen Katil (Finger-Cutter Killer), who started killing again after a hiatus of 15 years.
The series is currently planned to last three seasons and up to 100 episodes.
"Behzat Ç. Seni Kalbime Gömdüm".
Behzat Ç. Seni Kalbime Gömdüm ("I Buried You in My Heart") is the theatrical movie of the TV series based on the second novel "Son Hafriyat" by Emrah Serbes, who also wrote the script for the film. Directed by Serdar Akar, it tells the story of a cop killer known as Red Kit (the Turkish name translation of the cartoon character Lucky Luke).
