Ne mutlu Türküm diyene
Ne mutlu Türküm diyene (English: "How happy is the one who says I am a Turk") is a motto of the education system of the Republic of Turkey. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk coined the phrase in a speech delivered for the 10th Anniversary of the Republic of Turkey, on October 29, 1933 (Republic Day). In 1972, the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Turkey introduced this phrase to the "Student Oath" (or "Student Pledge", ). The entire text was sung until 2013, in primary schools in Turkey.
History of the Student Oath.
1933.
Children's Day.
23 Nisan 1933 (Çocuk Bayramı) Talim ve Terbiye Kurulu ve "Öğrenci Yemini" (ya da "Öğrenci Rehin") metnini oluşan zamanda Milli Eğitim Bakanı Afet İnan'ın kitabında, Reşit Galip göre Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı edification yönü sayısı 101 ile "Öğrenci Yemini" olarak bu metni tanıttı ve Eğitim ve yetiştirme Kurulu yönüne uygun olarak 10 Mayıs 1933 tarihli Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı genelge yayınladı sayı 1749-1742 ve "Öğrenci Pledge" hakkında tarihli May 18, 1933. Öğrenciler her gün yemin tekrarlamanız gerekir.
Reşit Galip's original text.
Turkish:
"Türküm, doğruyum, çalışkanım. Yasam, küçüklerimi korumak, büyüklerimi saymak, yurdumu, budunumu özümden çok sevmektir. Ülküm, yükselmek, ileri gitmektir. Varlığım Türk varlığına armağan olsun."
English:
"I am a Turk, honest and hardworking. My principle is to protect the younger to respect the elder, to love my homeland and my nation more than myself. My ideal is to rise, to progress. My existence shall be a gift to the Turkish existence."
10th Anniversary of the Republic.
Mustafa Kemal (Atatürk) used the phrase "Ne mutlu Türküm diyene" (How happy is the one who says I am a Turk) in his speech delivered for the 10th Anniversary of the Republic of Turkey, on October 29, 1933 (Republic Day)
1972.
50th Anniversary of the Battle of Dumlupınar.
To the purpose of usage for the 50th Anniversary of the victory over Greek forces at Dumlupınar in 1922 (Victory Day), with the article No. 78 of the regulation about elementary schools, published in the "Resmî Gazete" No. 14291 dated August 29, 1972, last phrases including "Ne mutlu Türküm diyene" (How happy is the one who says I am a Turk) were added to the existing "Student Oath".
Text of 1972 edition.
Turkish: 
"Türküm, doğruyum, çalışkanım. Yasam, küçüklerimi korumak, büyüklerimi saymak, yurdumu, milletimi özümden çok sevmektir. Ülküm yükselmek, ileri gitmektir. Varlığım Türk varlığına armağan olsun."
"Ey bu günümüzü sağlayan, Ulu Atatürk; açtığın yolda, kurduğun ülküde, gösterdiğin amaçta hiç durmadan yürüyeceğime ant içerim."
"Ne mutlu Türküm diyene."
English:
"I am a Turk, honest and hardworking. My principle is to protect the younger to respect the elder, to love my homeland and my nation more than myself. My ideal is to rise, to progress. My existence shall be dedicated to the Turkish existence."
"Oh Great Atatürk, who had created our life of today; on the path that you have paved, in the country that you established, I swear to walk incessantly with the purposes that you have set."
"How happy is the one who says I am a Turk.""
1997.
Text of 1997 edition.
Turkish:
"Türküm, doğruyum, çalışkanım. İlkem, küçüklerimi korumak, büyüklerimi saymak, yurdumu, milletimi, özümden çok sevmektir. Ülküm, yükselmek, ileri gitmektir."
"Ey büyük Atatürk! Açtığın yolda, gösterdiğin hedefe durmadan yürüyeceğime ant içerim."
"Varlığım Türk varlığına armağan olsun. Ne mutlu Türküm diyene !"
English :
"I am a Turk, honest and hardworking. My principle is to protect the younger to respect the elder, to love my homeland and my nation more than myself. My ideal is to rise, to progress."
"Oh Great Atatürk ! On the path that you have paved, I swear to walk incessantly toward the aims that you have set."
"My existence shall be dedicated to the Turkish existence. How happy is the one who says "I am a Turk!"."
2013.
Anullment.
On 8th of September, 2013, the practice of reciting Student Oath is abolished with the notice in the Official Register. 
