Özel Çevre Koruma Kurumu
The Özel Çevre Koruma Kurumu (), is the Turkish authority for protecting Special Protection Areas. It was established in 1988 by a decree of the Turkish Cabinet and initially placed under direct supervision of the prime minister. In English it may be referred to as EPASA, short for Environmental Protection Agency for Special Areas.
History.
After publication in the Resmi Gazete the Turkish government obtained the authority to give environmentally threatened areas of high ecological value threatened the status of SEPA (Special Environmental Protection Area), so as to enable them to take special measures to safeguard their natural beauty for future generations. The practical administration was entrusted to the ÖÇKK. In 1991 the ÖÇKK was put under the responsibility of the newly formed Ministry of Environment. After a merger with the Ministry of Forestry in 2003, the Authority has to answer to the new Ministry of Environment and Forestry. The Turkish Authority for the Protection of Special Areas performs its activities as a public institution with a special budget.
In 2011 a new reorganisation has taken place resulting in three different branches, one for building and town planning, another specialised at water management and a third controlling forestry.
Mission.
The ÖÇKK aims to preserve the natural beauty, historical and cultural heritage, to protect the biodiversity and water, to preserve these values for future generations, promote sustainable regional development and promote environmental awareness among the local population.
Goals.
Concretely this means that protection and exploitation of an SEPA go hand in hand, by
Criticism.
Although environmental protection seems well-organised on paper, practice often shows otherwise. Economical growth often prevails over environmental interests. 
Rich agricultural soil is sacrificed for urbanisation. The urbanisation resulting from migratie from areas with employment opportunities results in pollution of the surface water, soil erosion and environmental pollution because of the lack of water purifying installtions and uncontrolled waste disposal.
To fulfil the EU admission standards, the Turkish environmental legislation is upgraded to international standards. 
Turkey has subscribed to Agenda 21 (1992) and tries to meet goals related to environment and sustainability. Items that need attention are water, (chemical) waste and energy supply.
