TVi (Malaysia)
RTM TVi, also known as TVi is a digital television station in Malaysia owned and operated by the Radio Television Malaysia, a division of the Malaysian Government. It is part of the RTM Digital Television services, along with Muzik Aktif, Pelangi, Sinergi and Panggung.
TVi broadcasts for 24 hours a day since its re-launch in April 2011. TVi, specifically meant for Sabah and Sarawak, is an initiative by the Federal Government and the governments of the two states to bring about a deeper understanding of the people in them. This would also help further promote the 1Malaysia concept among Malaysians, especially in the peninsular.
TVi focusing programmes that highlight life in Sabah and Sarawak, culture and songs of the various ethnic groups in them, documentaries, history and plans in store for these two states. The channel is currently available on Astro’s Channel 180, which previously broadcast RTM Muzik Aktif.
History.
As RTMi.
TVi was launched along with the initial DVB-T tests available in the Klang Valley under the name RTMi. Its test broadcast began in 2000 chosen residential homes surrounding Klang Valley for 6 months starting in September 2006, using the DVB-T standard. The test ended in March 2007, involving the installation and the interpretation of the "Set Top Boxes" in the respective homes. During the period, the channel broadcast daily from 7:00 p.m. until 12 midnight (for 5 hours), previewing programmes that are shown on RTM1 and RTM2. This digitalisation test was estimated to cost over RM76 million. The transmitters used were provided by Harmonic Inc.
During the off air hours, RTM no longer uses the Philips test card, instead opting for a colour bar. The Philips test card was eventually only aired on TV1 and TV2, while the new colour bar cards are used for the remaining channels.
In April 2007, RTM had announced that digital transmission will persist despite the test period being over due to the positive response received during the period and plans for further testing involving different video/audio codecs.
For a brief period, transmission was moved to channel 43, however, the frequency was restored to channel 44 at the time RTMi was shut down.
At that time, Digital TV availability in Malaysia is limited to the few expensive USB tuners sold by computer stores and set top box handed out by RTM to selected households, hence the limited availability of the channel. During this time, RTMi was transmitted over DVB-T UHF Channel 44. The channel was transmitted on and off until 2009 with the deferral of the analogue shutdown to 2015 from 2012, when it was shelved in favour of three different channels- Muzik Aktif (its then-spiritual successor), Arena (a short-lived sports channel that was shut down due to a small court case over its name by Astro) and Berita Aktif (a news channel, scrapped within days of launching). At the time of closing, the types of programmes that RTMi had shown were repeats of dramas already airing on RTM1/RTM2, as well as music videos.
As RTM Muzik Aktif.
RTM Muzik Aktif launched by RTM on 16 March 2009 as a successor to the RTMi channel. The channel was available via satellite using Astro platform at channel 180, and to DVB-T receiver owners on DVB-T UHF Channel 44.
RTM Muzik Aktif (Malay: Active Music) is a music channel in Malaysia. It is the first Malaysian music channel, taking the place of RTMi on the RTM Digital trial signals. On 10 April 2011, Muzik Aktif on Astro is replaced with the new RTM channel focusing on East Malaysian viewers, TVi. However, Muzik Aktif is still available over DVB-T to those in the Klang Valley.
As TVi.
Malaysian government want to promote understanding between Malaysian Peninsular and Malaysian borneo (Sabah and Sarawak). Therefore, RTM in conjunction with Sabah and Sarawak state government plan to launch TV channel which promoting Sabah and Sarawak culture.
On 10 April 2011, RTM launching the new TV station focusing on East Malaysian programmes called TVi. The channel broadcast via channel 180 Astro, replacing RTM Muzik Aktif On digital terrestrial in the Klang Valley, the channel broadcasts on UHF channel 46, multiplexed with the digital simulcasts of RTM1 and RTM2. While the channel replaced Muzik Aktif on Astro, the channel actually airs alongside Muzik Aktif (though labelled as "Music Active" on its channel name) on the RTM Digital trial signal. TVi airs alongside RTM's other digital-only channels such as SinErgi (the spiritual successor to RTM's Arena), Panggung (which now airs repeats of old RTM1/RTM2 dramas, filling in RTMi's original role), and Pelangi (which airs locally produced children and teen programming, was originally named Ilham for a short stint). SinErgi, Panggung and Pelangi are multiplexed and transmitted in DVB-T on UHF channel 44.
As of late 2011, TVs with onboard DVB-T tuners are becoming available in the country. While the lack of set top boxes being sold still inhibits the ability to get the channel terrestrially to those unwilling to buy a new TV, many with DVB-T capable TV sets in the Klang Valley are now able to enjoy these 5 channels.
