RASAT
RASAT is an earth observation satellite designed and developed by TÜBİTAK Space Technologies Research Institute (TÜBİTAK UZAY) and produced in Turkey to provide high resolution imagery. It is so the first one of its art completely realized in Turkey, and the second indigenously developed remote sensing satellite after BILSAT-1.
Financed by the State Planning Organization (DPT) and designed by TÜBİTAK UZAY without any international know-how transfer, RASAT was launched from Dombarovskiy Cosmodrome, near Yasny in Russia by a Dnepr-1 space launch vehicle at 08:12:20 UTC on August 17, 2011 along with seven other satellites Sich-2 and BPA-2 of Ukraine, NigeriaSat-2 and NigeriaSat-X of Nigeria, EduSat of India as well as AprizeSat-5 and AprizeSat-6 of Italy. RASAT was placed 16 minutes and 9 seconds after the lift-off into a low Earth orbit of . The first signal from RASAT was received in the space center of Andøya Rocket Range, northern Norway at 09:44.04 UTC. RASAT is controlled and observed at the space center of TÜBİTAK UZAY in Ankara.
Mission.
Projected for a mission duration of three years, RASAT is on a sun-synchronous geocentric orbit. Its instruments, supplied by the South Korean space technology company Satrec Initiative, allow a spatial resolution of at panchromatic band and at multispectral band. RASAT carries out various civil applications on mapping and planning, disaster management, ecosystem monitoring, environmental control, landcover survey and coastal zone management. Additionally, RASAT is used to test a custom designed on-board computer "BiLGE" capable of using SpaceWire network, a solid-state processor "GEZGİN-2" (an abbreviation for "GErçek Zamanda Görüntü İşleyeN") for real-time image compression using algorithm of JPEG 2000 and a telecommunication system "Treks" of X band transmitter module with 100 MB/s data transfer rate and 7 Watt power.
The first images were received in Ankara on October 8, 2011. At the end of 2012, a two-dimensional map of Turkey will be completed using 1,200 images taken by RASAT. The map will be distributed to governmental agencies, particularly to the State Hydraulic Works (DSİ) and Mineral Research and Exploration (MTA). In 2013, three-dimensional relief maps of Turkey created by RASAT will be offered on the web. Customers will be able to order and download their actual map requirements.
