Yılmaz Güney
Yılmaz Güney (born Yılmaz Pütün, 1 April 1937 – 9 September 1984) was a Turkish film director, scenarist, novelist, and actor of Zaza and Kurdish origin. Many of his works were devoted to the plight of ordinary, working class people in Turkey. Yılmaz Güney
won the Palme d'Or with the film Yol he co-produced with Şerif Gören at Cannes Film Festival in 1982.
Background.
Yılmaz Güney was born in 1937 in the Yenice county of Adana. His father was a Zaza from Siverek, and his mother was a Kurd from Varto, Turkey. His parents migrated to Adana to work as cotton field laborers. As a result of his family background, young Yılmaz grew among the working class. This was a strong background for his future works which generally focused on a realistic portrayal of downtrodden and marginalized strata of the population in the country. Güney studied law and economics at the universities of Ankara and Istanbul, but by the age of 21 he found himself actively involved in film-making.
Career in Turkey.
As Yeşilçam, the Turkish studio system, a handful of directors, including Atıf Yılmaz, began to use cinema as a means of addressing the problems of the people. State-sanctioned melodramas, war films, and play adaptations had mostly previously been played in Turkish theaters. These new filmmakers began to shoot and screen more realistic pictures of Turkish/Kurdish life. Yılmaz Güney was one of the most popular names to emerge from this trend, a gruff-looking young actor who earned the moniker "Çirkin Kral" ("the Ugly King" in Turkish) or "parşay naşirîn" in Kurdish (sorani dialect). After working as an apprentice screenwriter for and assistant to Atıf Yılmaz, Güney soon began appearing in as many as 20 films a year and became Turkey's one of the most popular actors.
The early 1960s brought restricted freedom to Turkey, and Güney was imprisoned from 1960 to 1962. In prison he wrote what some labeled a "communist" novel, "They Died with Their Heads Bowed". The country's political situation and Güney's relationship with the authorities became even more tense in the ensuing years. Not content with his star status atop the Turkish film industry, Güney began directing his own pictures in 1965. By 1968 he had formed his own production company, Güney Filmcilik. Over the next few years, the titles of his films mirrored the feelings of the people of Turkey: "Umut" ("Hope", 1970); "Ağıt" ("Elegy", 1972); "Acı" ("Pain", 1971); "The Hopeless" (1971).
After 1972, however, Güney would spend most of his life in prison. Arrested for harboring anarchist students, Güney was jailed during preproduction of "Zavallılar" ("The Miserable", 1975), and before completing "Endişe" ("Worry", 1974), which was finished in 1974 by Güney's assistant, Şerif Gören. This was a cherished role that Gören would repeat over the next dozen years, directing several scripts that Güney wrote laboriously while behind bars.
Released from prison in 1974 as part of a general amnesty, Güney was re-arrested that same year for shooting a judge Sefa Mutlu, the public prosecutor of Yumurtalık district in Adana Province, to death in a night club as a result of a drunken row and given a prison sentence of 19 years. During this stretch of incarceration, his most successful screenplays were "Sürü" ("The Herd", 1978) and "Düşman" ("The Enemy", 1979), both directed by Zeki Ökten. "Düşman" won an Honourable Mention at the 30th Berlin International Film Festival in 1980.
Exile and death.
After escaping from prison in 1981 and fleeing to France, Güney won the Palme d'Or at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival for his film "Yol", whose director in the field was once again Şerif Gören. It was not until 1983 that Güney resumed directing, telling a brutal tale of imprisoned children in his final film, "Duvar" ("The Wall", 1983), made in France with the cooperation of the French government. Meanwhile, Turkey's government revoked his citizenship and a court sentenced him to twenty-two extra years in jail.
Yılmaz Güney died of gastric cancer in 1984, in Paris, France.
Biography.
A biography of Güney, "Halkın Sanatçısı, Halkın Savaşçısı: Yılmaz Güney", was published by Dönüşüm Publishing in 1992, and reprinted in 2000. Its publisher was fined in 2001 because of some of the book's content, although this was overturned in 2003 when the relevant law was repealed.
