Elmalma Brand Communication
Elmalma Brand Communication (, ) is a Turkish digital agency, founded in 2009 in İstanbul by Rodin Alper Bingöl.
The company provides services in the fields of web design and implementation, social media, community development and management, branding, movie promotions, personal account managements, digital promotions and digital PR.
Elmalma Brand Communication was the first digital agency to come up with the term “brand psychologist”.
In its first year, the company carried out several different projects for the digital world such as Removing Barriers Movement, Metin Arolat, "Love Likes Coincidences", "Kıskankmak" the movie.
In 2011, the company teamed up with Böcek Yapım, one of the biggest production companies in Turkey.
Milestones.
The movie projects "Love Likes Coincidences" and "Kıskanmak" which were executed in 2009, were the first examples of effective use of social media and digital reputation management in the film industry.
"Love Likes Coincidences", "Anadolu Kartalları", "Karadedeler Olayı", "Çalgı Çengi", "Red", "The Next Three Days" and "Source Code" are some of the national and international film projects which involved Elmalma Brand Communication as the official digital agency.
Cem Yılmaz, Demet Akalın, Murat Boz, Ceyhun Yılmaz, Tarkan, Yılmaz Erdoğan, Tolga Çevik, Metin Arolat are some of the famous clients who work with the company for their digital strategies.
Additionally, brands and corporations such as CMYLMZ Fikir Sanat, Böcek Yapım, LTB Jeans, Show Tv, Fida Film, Medyavizyon, BKM, Saran Holding, Pizza Pizza, Mars Entertainment Group have chosen to work with Elmalma Brand Communication.
As a business strategy, the company owns and manages over 10 different social media communities like Sinefabrika, Tarihteki Bugün, Çok Özel Sözler, etc. appealing to different niches.
The company is also in charge of the execution of all strategies and management of the Removing Barriers Movement which started off as Rodin Alper Bingöl’s thesis project.
