Yapı Merkezi
Yapı Merkezi is a group company whose field of activity is mainly in construction industry. It is founded in 1965 by Ersin Arioglu and Koksal Anadol in Istanbul. As the first and largest company of the Yapı Merkezi Group, Yapı Merkezi Construction and Industry has realized the design and construction of a wide variety of buildings, rail systems and heavy construction projects. Since 1980, the company has also realized contracts in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Morocco, United Arab Emirates, Sudan and Ethiopia. Yapı Merkezi web site is awarded for “Construction Standard of Excellence”.
Field of Activities.
Through its specialized companies, Yapı Merkezi has realized national and international projects within the fields of transportation systems, rail systems, tunnels, bridges, viaducts, industrial and general service buildings, mass housing and city planning, water collection and supply systems, restoration, strengthening, and repair works.
Group Companies.
Yapı Merkezi Prefabrication established in 1978 was the first company in its field to obtain the ISO 9001 Quality Assurance certificate in Turkey. In 1987, Yapı Merkezi has founded Freysaş in partnership with Freyssinet Inetrnational. Since then Freysas has realized projects featuring advanced constructing technologies such as cable stay systems, post-tensioning, heavy lifting and ground anchorage. Yapıkonut has joined the group in 1994 and accomplished projects such as Çamkonaklar, Sokullu Estates, NP12 Estates, Sisli Plaza and the Arkeon Housing Complex. In 1995, qualified Education Institutions Inc. was founded and Irmak Schools, Education Institution were opened. In 1996, the Group has introduced SUBOR Pipe Industry Inc. to manufacture high-end technology composite construction materials.
Experience in the Rail systems.
Yapıray has joined the group in 1995 in order to take the advantage of the group company’s experience in the Rail systems field and considering the increasing demand for urban and intercity railway transport. Yapıray provides design, development and operation services concerning railway systems.
Today Istanbul’s most of the operating rail systems are constructed by Yapı Merkezi. Dubai Metro, Ankara-Konya High Speed Railway, Casablanca Tramway, Algeria Bir Touta-Zeralda Railway, Medinah High Speed Train Station, Izmir Metro, Eskisehir Tramway, Kayseri Tramway, Taksim-Kabatas Funicular System and Antalya Tramway are examples of Yapı Merkezi’s turn-key projects.
2004 UITP (International Association for Public Transport) “Light Rail Project of the Year” award was given to Estram (Eskisehir LRTS), UITP “2010 Best Urban Integration Project of the Year” and British Light Transit Association’s “Worldwide Project of the Year” awards were given Kayseray (Kayseri Light Rail System). Both tramway systems are constructed by Yapı Merkezi as turnkey project.
