Bulan, Sorsogon
Bulan is a first class municipality in the south of Luzon island, Sorsogon Province, Philippines. According to the 2010 census, it has a population 93,943 inhabitants.
Geography.
The Municipality of Bulan is located at the southwestern most tip of the Bicol Peninsula of the island of Luzon. It has an area of exactly 20,094 hectares and is the terminal and burgeoning center of trade and commerce of its neighboring towns. It comprises fifty-five (55) barangays and eight (8) zones and is populated by people of diversified origin.
This municipality is bounded on the north by the Municipality of Magallanes, on the east by the municipalities of Juban and Irosin, on the south by the Municipality of Matnog, and on the west by Ticao Pass. It has a distance of from Manila, from the province's capital Sorsogon City, from the town of Irosin and from the town of Matnog.
Barangays.
Bulan is politically subdivided into 63 barangays.
Economy.
Residents of the Bulan is now looking forward on its cityhood because of its rapid-economic growth considering the fact that it is sited as the richest municipality in the province and 5th among the 1st class municipalities in Bicol Region with an average annual income of Php 58.8M. If it happens, Bulan will be the second city in the province and will be the 9th in the region.
Major export of this town are from its coastal waters, agricultural lands produce rice, copra, abaca fiber.
Most of the revenues come from the fishing port of Bulan and businesses.
There is one commercial bank in bulan, the Allied Bank (with 2 ATMs), a rural bank Rural Bank of San Jacinto, Masbate, and the Camalig Bank.
There are also lending institutions like Intertrade, GSAC, and PALFSI that are very popular to SMEs.
Telecommunications.
Bulan has fixed landline phones from Digitel and PLDT. Mobile or cellular networks are Globe, Smart and Sun Cellular Telecommunications Companies
Education.
The Primary Education in Bulan is divided into two Districts, the Bulan North District comprising all the Barangays towards the north coastal Barangays, to the interior land locked northern Barangays. The Bulan South District comprises the southern Coastal Barangays.
Bulan has many secondary educational institutions. The largest public high school is Bulan National High School. Formerly, it was the Bulan High School/Bulan Vocational High School, before the former was converted into Sorsogon State College Bulan Campus. BNHS has satellite Campuses at Barangays Otavi, Beguin, J.P. Laurel, San Juan Bag-o. There is also a Secondary School in San Francisco, one of the biggest Barangay of Bulan. The San Franscisco National High School.
There are various private secondary schools. The St. Louise De Marillac School (Formerly Colegio de la Inmaculada Concepcion) a Catholic school run by the Daughters of Charity religious congregation, Saint Bonaventure Academy of Butag, the Southern Luzon Institute-Kenerino Ramirez Asuncion Memorial School (SLI-KRAMS) were the oldest school in Bulan, Solis Institute of Technology, and A.G. Villaroya Technological Foundation Institute.
Aside from the formal education system, a parallel alternative learning system program is incorporated in the education system to provide a viable alternative to the existing formal education structure. It encompasses both the non-formal and informal sources of knowledge and skills such as those acquired at home, the church, media, environment or even the life itself and span the pre-literacy to higher skills continuum.
There are two major existing programs implemented.1) Basic Literacy Program 2)Accreditation and Equivalency (A & E). ALS implementers such as Mobile Teachers and District ALS Coordinators were the one administer the implementation of the programs. It is intended for Out-of-School Youth and Adults who are unschooled or school drop-out. For more inquiries look for Bulan South and Bulan North Districts ALS implementers.
