Turkish grammar
Turkish is a highly agglutinative language, i.e., Turkish words have many grammatical suffixes or endings that determine meaning. Turkish vowels undergo vowel harmony. When a suffix is attached to a stem, the vowel in the suffix generally agrees in frontness or backness and in roundedness with the last vowel in the stem.
Introduction.
Suffixes.
A suffix ("ek") is attached to a stem ("gövde"). A stem may be a root ("kök") or further analyzable. The suffixes used in Turkish fall roughly into two classes: constructive suffixes ("yapım ekleri") and inflectional suffixes ("çekim ekleri"). A constructive suffix makes a new word from an old one, that is, it is a derivational suffix. An inflectional suffix indicates how a word is used in a sentence. The article on Turkish grammar pertains chiefly to inflectional suffixes. The article on Turkish vocabulary treats the constructive suffixes.
A Turkish suffix can be called "enclitic" if its vowel undergoes vowel harmony, agreeing with the last vowel of the stem the suffix is attached to.
Gender.
Turkish is a gender-neutral language except for a few sex-specific compound words (mostly naming professions). English third person singular pronouns "she", "he", and "it" all correspond to a single Turkish pronoun "o". Since many given names in Turkish are also gender-neutral, it is possible to describe someone without their sex being made known.
Person.
Turkish has a strong T–V distinction and usage of honorifics. Turkish uses second-person pronouns that distinguish varying levels of politeness, social distance, age, courtesy or familiarity toward the addressee. The plural second-person pronoun and verb forms are used referring to a single person out of respect, as is done in French and Russian.
T–V distinction.
Family members and friends speak to one another using the second singular person "sen", and adults use "sen" to address minors. In formal situations (meeting people for the first time, business, customer-clerk, colleagues) plural second-person "siz" is used almost exclusively. In very formal situations, double plural second-person "sizler" may be used to refer to a much-respected person. Rarely, third person plural conjugation of the verb (but not the pronoun) may be used to emphasize utmost respect. In the imperative, there are three forms: second person singular for informal, second person plural for formal, and double plural second person for very formal situations. Thus, the imperative forms of the verb "gelmek", "to come", are "gel" (second person singular, informal), "gelin" (second person plural, formal), and "geliniz" (double second person plural, very formal). The very formal forms are not frequently used.
Honorifics.
Turkish honorifics generally follow the first name, especially if they refer to gender or particular social statuses (e.g. Name Bey (Mr.), Name Hanım (Ms.), Name Hoca (teacher or cleric)). Such honorifics are used both in formal and informal situations. A newer honorific is "Sayın," which precedes the surname or full name, and is not gender-specific. (e.g. Sayın Name Surname, or Sayın Surname). They are generally used in very formal situations.
Turkish terminology.
In the Turkish terms for the constructive and inflectional endings, three roots are involved:
For the last two verbal roots, the constructive suffix "-im" can be added to form nouns for instances of the actions denoted by the roots:
Either of these nouns can be compounded with the noun "ek", resulting in an indefinite compound ("belirtisiz tamlama"), the sign of which is the inflectional suffix "-i" attached to "ek":
The inflectional suffix "-ler" comes before the "-i" to form the plural, so "yapım ekleri, çekim ekleri".
Many words in Turkish—particularly many grammatical terms—are neologisms invented to replace earlier words borrowed from Arabic or Persian. (See the main article on Turkish language.) In some cases, the older term continues to be in used alongside the neologism.
Parts of speech.
There are nine parts of speech ("söz türleri" "word-kinds") in Turkish.
Postpositions are analogous to prepositions in English, the main difference being that they follow their objects. Postpositions can be considered particles, but there are particles in Turkish that are not postpositions.
Only nouns, pronouns and verbs are inflected in Turkish. An adjective can usually be treated as a noun or pronoun, in which case it can also be inflected. Inflection can give a noun features of a verb such as person and tense. With inflection, a verb can become one of the following:
These have peculiarities not shared with other nouns, adjectives or adverbs. 
For example, some participles take a "person" the way verbs do.
Also, a verbal noun or adverb can take a direct object. 
Some verbal nouns are "not" inflected forms in Turkish, but are borrowed from Arabic or other languages.
A noun or pronoun alone can make a complete sentence. For example, 
Most dictionaries list verbs in their infinitive form, which alone usually cannot form complete sentences. For example,
However, instead of the infinitive, the Redhouse Turkish–English Dictionary gives the stem of a verb as its headword, and the present article follows this convention. The verb-stem is also the second-person singular imperative:
Both a noun and a verb, without endings, can alone form a sentence.
Many verbs are formed from nouns by addition of "-le". For example, 
The aorist tense of a verb is formed by adding "-(i/e)r". 
The plural of a noun is formed by suffixing "-ler". 
Hence: 
Thus "-ler" can indicate either a plural noun or a finite verb.
Most adjectives can be treated as nouns or pronouns. For example,
An adjective or noun can stand, as a modifier, before a noun. If the modifier is a noun (but not a noun of material), then the second noun word takes the inflectional suffix "-i":
Comparison of adjectives is not done by inflecting adjectives or adverbs, but by other means (described below).
Adjectives can serve as adverbs, sometimes by means of repetition: 
Word-order.
A general rule of Turkish word order is that the modifier precedes the modified:
Although the most common order of Turkish transitive sentences is subject–object–verb (SOV), all six permutationa are valid (the subject and object are distinguished by case suffixes). The word order serves to express the theme and focus (rheme) of the sentence. The sentence initial portion is associated with the topic, the position just before the verb is used for the focus, and the post verbal position is used for background or clarifying information 
The following sentences illustrate how Subject-Object-Verb order changes meaning. In the English translations given here, the focus of the sentence is given in all capitals, while the background information (known from earlier in the discourse) is given in parenthesis.
1 SOV: "Ali eve gidiyor" = Ali-home-is-going = Ali is going home
2 OSV: "Eve Ali gidiyor" = home-Ali-is going = ALİ is going home
3 SVO: "Ali gidiyor eve" = Ali-is going-home = ALİ is going HOME
4 OVS: "Eve gidiyor Ali" = home-is going-Ali = Ali is going home (the same with #1)(anacoluthon)
5 VSO: "Gidiyor Ali eve" = is going-Al,-home = There goes Ali HOME (anacoluthon)
6 VOS: "Gidiyor eve Ali" = is going-home-ALİ = There goes ALİ home(anacoluthon)
Note: Meanings may be different depending on emphasis.
In one study, only about half of the transitive sentences used by a sample of Turkish speakers were found to be in the SOV order.
When a sentence has a multiple informational components, the stressed component is positioned just before the verb:
Morpheme order.
The order of morphemes in Turkish is often opposite to English:
The above example is also illustrative of the productive nature of Turkish suffixes in creating new verbs, nouns, etc. Note how the word "Avrupalılaştıramadık" is a verb, an adjective and a noun; the morphologic parse shown above implies that this word is transformed from a verb to an adjective to a noun, in order to then accept noun-specific suffixes. 
The longest published word in Turkish, "muvaffakiyetsizleştiricileştiriveremeyebileceklerimizdenmişsinizcesine" means "as if you are one of those that we can not easily convert into an unsuccessful-person-maker" (i.e., someone who un-educates people to make them unsuccessful).
Inflectional suffixes.
The plural suffix ("çoğul eki") can be used with nouns and with third-person verbs:
The case-endings ("durum ekleri" from "dur-" "stop, last", or "hâl ekleri" from "hâl" "state, condition") can be named (in English) and used roughly as in Latin:
If a case-ending is attached to a demonstrative pronoun (which ends in "o" or "u"), or to a noun that has already taken a third-person ending of possession (given below), then the case-ending is preceded by "n" (and the parenthetical "y" is not used).
Nouns derived from verbs in several ways. The number of ways of forming "verbal" nouns ("fiil isimleri") from verb-stems can be debated; here are three:
Several series of endings show distinctions of person ("kişi"); they are given here, along with the personal pronouns for comparison:
The names given to the personal endings here are not standard.
These endings are often just referred to as type I, II, III, and IV respectively; but the order in which the types are numbered is also not standard.
It should also be noted that Lewis (1967) refers to the suffixes of possession as "personal" endings.
However, of the endings called personal in Turkish and in this article:
In the 3rd person, plural number is not always explicitly marked, and the same form is used for both singular and plural. If the plural suffix "-ler" is used, it combines with the personal endings as indicated in the final column of the table.
A suffix of possession gives the person of a "possessor" of the object named by the noun to which the suffix is attached; it also indicates a subject for a participle.
A predicative ending can assign a person to a noun, thus creating a complete sentence:
"insan" "human"; "İnsanım." "I am an human."
See also Copula#Turkish and Turkish copula.
All of the personal suffixes can be used in the formation of verbs.
Verb-"stems" have been mentioned. 
A verb-base is obtained from a verb-"stem" by attachment of certain suffixes or characteristics given below.
Then the personal endings here called "predicative" and "verbal" attach only to verb-"bases"; the optative and imperative endings attach to verb-"stems".
The present characteristic is not fully enclitic: the first syllable shows vowel harmony, but the second is invariable.
The aorist negative and impotential characteristics are given here because they are anomalous. Note, that the "-z" of the aorist negative (-mez) and impotential (-(y)emez) is dropped in the 1st person singular and plural, in order to be able to suffix it. (Aorist negative 1st person singular: -mem; BUT: Aorist impotential 3rd person plural: -(y)emezler)
The non-aorist characteristics can be suffixed to the following endings:
See #Negation and potential in verb-stems under #Verbs below.
Some third-person verbs are also participles.
Participles can be classified as personal, if they take a suffix of possession, and impersonal, if they do not. The following suffixes attach to verb-stems:
The interrogative particle ("soru eki") is not written as a suffix, but it is enclitic:
Nouns.
Inflection.
A Turkish noun has no gender.
The dictionary-form of a noun can take up to four (kinds of) #Inflectional suffixes, generally in the following order:
Through its presence or absence, the plural ending shows distinctions of number.
Number.
A noun is made into an "indefinite" plural by addition of "-ler". If a numeral is used with a noun, then the plural suffix is usually "not" used: 
The plural ending also allows a family (living in one house) to be designated by a single member:
In the last example, the first-person singular suffix of possession comes "before" the plural ending; this is an exception to the order of suffixes given above. 
In the usual order, we have
Nouns are pluralized in standard temporal greetings.
Possession.
As noted earlier, the suffixes of possession give the person (and number) of the "possessor" of what is named by the noun: 
Note well that, when a word takes one of the endings of possession, the word becomes the name of something "possessed", not possessing: the word for the possessor, if present, takes the genitive case-ending, as discussed below.
The plural ending will not be attached twice to the same word; therefore ambiguity is possible:
Ambiguity can be resolved with #Pronouns.
Case.
The absolute case combines the uses of the nominative, vocative, and (in part) accusative cases.
It is for subjects, and for names of people being addressed. 
It is also used for "indefinite" direct objects.
"Definite" direct objects are in the definite-accusative case:
The dative case tells "whither", that is, the place "to which". 
Thus it has roughly the meaning of the English prepositions "to" and "into", and also "in" when it can be replaced with "into":
The dative also is for objects: usually indirect objects, but sometimes objects that in English would be considered direct:
The locative case tells "where", hence corresponds to the English prepositions "at" and "on", and "in" when it does not mean "into".
The ablative case tells "whence", that is, the place "from which" (or through which), hence:
In the Turkish terminology, the genitive case indicates a "compounding" ("tamlayan") word. 
The corresponding "compounded" ("tamlanan") word will take the appropriate suffix of possession. 
The pair of these words is then a definite compound ("belirtili tamlama"):
However, if two nouns are connected, but not by ownership, then the second noun generally takes an ending of possession, while the first takes no ending. The result is an indefinite compound ("belirtisiz tamlama"):
If one noun names a material, the other noun need not take an ending:
Predication.
If a noun is to be in the first or second person, one of the predicative suffixes (or type-I personal suffixes) will show this:
In the third person, no ending is required.
However, the ending "-dir" can be used; it is said (Lewis, 1967: VIII,3) to be the remnant of a verb "turur" "S/he stands".
Again in the third person, the plural suffix may be used:
Several suffixes can be combined:
Verbal nouns.
The infinitive, formed with "-mek" as noted earlier, does not take a suffix of possession, or the genitive case-ending. 
It does take all other case-endings. 
In particular, the progressive characteristic given earlier is the infinitive ending with the locative ending:
The verbal noun in "-me" is called a "gerund" above, since it corresponds roughly to the English gerund.
It can take a suffix of possession and any case-ending:
The dative form of a Turkish gerund can correspond precisely to an English infinitive with "to":
that is, "Nano-technological products began to be produced in our country" ("source:" "Cumhuriyet Bilim-Teknik" 13 August 2005, p. 1).
Yet another verbal noun is from "-iş":
The verb "et-" "make, do" can be considered as an auxiliary verb, since for example it is often used with verbal nouns borrowed from other languages, such as Arabic:
Considered as units, these are transitive verbs; but the nouns in them can, by themselves, take direct objects:
What looks like an ablative gerund is usually an adverb; the ending "-meden" usually has the sense of "without". 
See #Adverbs below.
An infinitive in the absolute case can be the object of a verb such as "iste-" "want":
that is, "Some want to continue their educations, and some want to work"
("source:" "Cumhuriyet Pazar Dergi", 14 August 2005, p. 1.) Note here that the compound verb "devam et-" "continue, last" does not take a direct object, but is complemented by a dative noun.
Another way to express obligation (besides with "lâzım" as in the earlier example) is by means of "zor" "trouble, compulsion" and an infinitive:
Both an infinitive and a gerund are objects of the postposition "için" "for" in the third sentence of the quotation within the following quotation:
("Source:" "Cumhuriyet," 9 August 2005, Tuesday, p. 1.) A free translation is:
The facility authorities said, "The people of this district Edremit, Van are generally conservative. They cannot enter the lake comfortably, because the shore areas are near the road. So we are using a screen, both to close off the view of passersby on the road, and so that men will not cause discomfort." However, children cannot be prevented from spying on the other side through gaps in the screen.
Auxiliary verbs.
Certain verbs in Turkish are used to enhance the meaning of other verbs, or to agglutinate verbs from nouns. These verbs are called auxiliary verbs. A concise list follows:
Verbs that are used with nouns to agglutinate new verbs
Examples
If there is a change in the noun root through the process of agglutination, it is written adjacently. These are mostly Arabic loan-words, which switch to their "more" original form.
Remember that in Turkish words, two consonants of a syllable need a vowel to be pronunciated. There are exceptions on loan words only, but those that lost their original form are more common. This occurs in two ways: 
If two identical consonants exist in the end of the word, one is dropped such as "hall" "state,status" to "hal", "aff" "amnesty,forgiving" to "af". 
If any two consonants exist in one syllable, a vowel appears such as "hükm" "judgement" to "hüküm".
Exceptions: "throne", renk "colour", kart "card" frequent for the ones with "nk", "rt", "rk". Note that most of these are loan-words from Persian or western languages.
Examples
Verbs that are used with other verbs to enhance the meaning
Examples
Adjectives.
Use.
Adjectives used "attributively" precede the noun; used "predicatively", they follow, unless something other than word-order shows that they are being used predicatively:
In a positive comparison, the object takes the ablative case; the adverb "daha" "more" is optional, unless the object is left out.
In a negative comparison, the adverb "az" "less" is needed; the object still takes the ablative; "daha" can still be used as well.
The superlative degree is expressed by the adverb "en" "most".
Descriptive adjectives.
Most adjectives in the dictionary are descriptive. The most fundamental descriptive adjectives are two:
These are used only predicatively:
(This is a proverbial expression: "The honey-seller has a honey-pot; the wood-cutter has an axe"; "bal" "honey", "odun" "(fire) wood", "tas" "bowl", "balta" "axe"; the more usual order would make the saying "Balcının bal tası var, oduncunun baltası var").
Indefinite adjectives.
The cardinal "bir" "one" can be used as an indefinite article. Word-order can make the difference:
Unless it is being used by itself, elliptically, the adjective "hiç" "no" requires an additional word with negative force:
Participles.
It is noted under #Parts of speech that Turkish participles ("sıfat-fiiller") can be classified as
In a personal participle, the suffix of possession signifies the "subject" of the underlying verb; if this possessor is third person, then the possessor may be further specified with a noun in the genitive case.
The noun modified by a personal participle as an adjective may be the direct object of the underlying verb; the connexion may also be more vague.
The noun modified by an impersonal participle is generally the subject of the underlying verb (but see Lewis (1967: IX,2)).
The aorist tense ("geniş zaman" "broad time") is for habitual actions; the present tense ("şimdiki zaman" "time that is now") is for actions ongoing or contemplated.
Aorist:
Present:
that is, "No legal process has begun concerning the AKP members who pulled out guns and fired them in the air" ["Birgün Halkın Gazetesi", 25 July 2005]; for "-ip" see #Adverbs below.
Future:
Past/present:
A personal participle can be construed as a noun and used in parallel with verbal nouns:
("Source:" "Birgün Halkın Gazetesi" 13 August 2005, Saturday, p. 1.) That is,
Children are working, 68% to provide for their family's needs, 21% because their family wants it, 6% to learn a job or profession, 4% to meet their needs.
The following sentence from a newspaper headline contains twenty-two words, nine derived from verbs, four of these as participles, three as gerunds. Note also the use of "kontrol" from French as a verbal noun with "et-":
"Source:" "Cumhuriyet", 17 July 2005; more smoothly:
Saying that, by not joining the EU and by drawing close to the Islamic world, Turkey would be pushed into the lap of those who favor sharia, French senator Duireux made clear that it was necessary to control the Islamic tide.
Adverbs.
The adverb of negation is "değil". It is used to negate sentences that are without verb or "var"; then it takes the appropriate personal ending:
A number of adverbs are derived from verbs:
The ending "-e" is seen in:
The ending "-erek" denotes action at the same time as, or preceding, that of another verb:
latter is Bülent Ecevit as quoted in "Cumhuriyet", 20 July 2005.
["Buğday" magazine, 7–8/2005, no 32].
From "ol-" "be, become", "olarak" forms adverbial phrases corresponding to those in English with "as":
The ending "-meden" on a verb-stem looks like the ablative gerund, but it is not (Lewis [XI,12]). 
It indicates an action not occurring at all, or following that of the main verb:
Complementing "önce" "before" is "sonra" "after", which can follow a verb-stem given the ending "-dikten":
Simultaneity is expressed by "iken" or its (not enclitic) suffixed form "-(y)ken"; but if it follows a verb, then the verb appears, not as a stem, but as a "base"; see #Bases of verbs:
If two verbs of the same grammatical form have the same subject, the endings on the first verb can be replaced by "-ip"; see the example under #Participles.
Pronouns.
The third-person personal pronoun "o" "she/he/it" is declined as if it were the noun "on".
The other persons, "ben" "I", "sen" "you (singular/informal)", "biz" "we", "siz" "you (plural/formal)", are declined like nouns, except for a vowel change in the dative, and an anomalous genitive; also the plural forms do not involve "-ler":
The absolute case is generally needed only for emphasis:
The third-person pronoun can clear up an ambiguity mentioned above:
The pronoun "o" is also one of the demonstrative pronouns:
The latter two are declined like "o" (that is, treated as if they were "bun" and "şun").
The interrogative pronouns (and adjectives) are:
These appear in embedded questions but do not serve as true relative pronouns:
There is a suffix "-ki", borrowed from Persian, that acts as a relative pronoun in that it creates what, in English, would be called relative clauses. It does not display vowel harmony, except in a few common formations:
The reflexive pronoun ("dönüşlü zamir" from "dön-" "turn") is "kendi" "own, self":
Many of the indefinite adjectives can function as pronouns, taking case-endings.
Verbs.
Stems of verbs.
Many stems in the dictionary are indivisible; others consist of endings attached to a root.
Verb-stems from nouns.
The verb-stem "temizle-" "make clean" is the adjective "temiz" "clean" with the suffix "-le"; this suffix was mentioned earlier under #Parts of speech in connexion with the verb "köpekle-". Many verbs are formed from nouns or adjectives with "-le":
Voice.
A verbal root, or a verb-stem in "-le", can be lengthened with certain extensions. If present, they appear in the following order; they indicate distinctions of voice:
These endings might seem to be "inflectional" in the sense of the #Introduction above, but their meanings are not always clear from their particular names, and dictionaries do generally give the resulting forms, so in this sense they are "constructive" endings.
The causative extension makes an intransitive verb transitive, and a transitive verb factitive. Together, the reciprocal and causative extension make the repetitive extension "-(i)ştir".
Negation and potential in verb-stems.
A dictionary-stem is positive; it can be made:
Any of these three (kinds of) stems can be made potential by addition of "-e" and then "-bil". The "-bil" is not enclitic, but represents the verb "bil-" "know, be able"; the first syllable of the impotential ending represents an obsolete verb "u-" "be powerful, able" #Lewis [VIII,55].
So far then, there are six kinds of stems:
Such stems are not used for aorist forms, which have their own peculiar means of forming negatives and impotentials.
Bases of verbs.
The characteristics with which verb-bases are formed from stems are given under #Inflectional suffixes. Note again that aorist verbs have their own peculiar negative and impotential forms.
The progressive base in "-mekte" is discussed under #Verbal nouns.
Another base, namely the necessitative ("gereklilik"), is formed from a verbal noun.
The characteristic is "-meli", where "-li" forms adjectives from nouns, and "-me" forms gerunds from verb-stems. 
A native speaker may perceive the ending "-meli" as indivisible; the analysis here is from #Lewis [VIII,30]).
The present base is derived from the ancient verb "yorı-" "go, walk" #Lewis [VIII,16]; this can be used for ongoing actions, or for contemplated future actions.
The meaning of the aorist base is described under #Adjectives from verbs: participles.
There is some irregularity in first-person negative and impotential aorists. The full form of the base "-mez" (or "(y)emez") reappears before the interrogative particle "mi":
The definite past or "di"-past is used to assert that something did happen in the past.
The inferential past or "miş"-past can be understood as asserting that a past participle is applicable "now"; hence it is used when the fact of a past event, as such, is not important; in particular, the inferential past is used when one did not actually witness the past event.
A newspaper will generally use the "di"-past, because it is authoritative. The need to indicate uncertainly and inference by means of the "miş"-past may help to explain the extensive use of "ki" in the newspaper excerpt at Turkish vocabulary#The conjunction ki.
The conditional ("şart") verb could also be called "hypothetical"; it is used for remote possibilities, or things one might wish for. (See also #Compound bases.)
The various bases thus give distinctions of tense, aspect and mood. These can be briefly tabulated:
Questions.
The interrogative particle "mi" precedes predicative (type-I) endings (except for the 3rd person plural "-ler"), but follows the complete verb formed from a verbal, type-II ending:
Optative and imperative moods.
Usually, in the optative ("istek"), only the first-person forms are used, and these supply the lack of a first-person imperative ("emir"). 
In common practice then, there is one series of endings to express something wished for: 
"-(y)eyim, -(y)elim, —, -(y)in, -sin". 
The defective verb "i-".
The ancient verb "er-" #Lewis [VIII,2] exists in Turkish in three bases:
The form "iken" given under #Adverbs from verbs is also descended from "er-".
Since no more bases are founded on the stem "i-", this verb can be called defective. In particular, "i-" forms no negative or impotential stems; negation is achieved with the #Adverb of negation, "değil", given earlier.
Verbs "i-" are often made into suffixes; the corresponding bases then are
where the "y" is used only after vowels.
The verb "i-" serves as a copula. When a copula is needed, but the appropriate base in "i-" does not exist, then the corresponding base in "ol-" is used; this stem otherwise means "become".
The verb "i-" is irregular in the way it is used in questions: the particle "mi" always precedes it:
Compound bases.
The bases so far considered can be called "simple". A base in "i-" can be attached to another base, forming a compound base. One can then interpret the result by reading backwards. The following list is representative, not exhaustive:
By means of "ise" or "-(y)se", a verb can be made conditional in the sense of being the hypothesis or protasis of a complex statement:
The simple conditional can be used for remote conditions:
