Turkish vocabulary
This article is a companion to Turkish grammar and contains some information that might be considered grammatical. The purpose of this article is mainly to show the use of some of the "yapım ekleri" "structural suffixes" of the Turkish language, as well as to give some of the structurally important words, like pronouns, determiners, postpositions, and conjunctions.
Origins.
"See also Turkish language#Vocabulary."
In the ninth century, Turks began to convert to Islam and to use the Arabic (or Arabo-Persian) alphabet. When the Seljuk Turks overran Persia, they adopted for official and literary use the Persian language—which meanwhile had borrowed many Arabic words. Thus educated Turks had available for their use the vocabularies of three languages: Turkish, Arabic, and Persian.
When the Ottoman Empire arose out of the remains of the Selcuk Empire in Anatolia, its official language, "Osmanlıca" or Ottoman Turkish, became the only language to approach English in the size of its vocabulary (according to #Lewis). However, common people continued to use "kaba Türkçe" or "rough Turkish" which contained much fewer loanwords and which is the basis of the modern Turkish language. 
With the advent of the Turkish Republic in 1923 came the attempt to unify the languages of the people and the administration, and to westernize the country. The modern Turkish alphabet, based on the Latin script, was introduced. Also, Arabic and Persian words were replaced, as possible, by:
Turkish words surviving in speech, obsolete Turkish words, new words formed regularly from the agglutinative resources of Turkish, thoroughly new words or formations. However, still a large portion of current Turkish words have Arabic or Persian origins.
Turkish has words borrowed from Greek due to the Ottoman Empire having conquered the Byzantine Empire. There are also borrowings from other European languages, or from the common technical vocabulary of Europe.
In the latter case, the borrowings are usually taken in their French pronunciation.
Origin of the words in Turkish vocabulary.
The 2005 edition of "Güncel Türkçe Sözlük", the official dictionary of the Turkish language published by Turkish Language Association, contains 104,481 words, of which about 86% are Turkish and 14% are of foreign origin. Among the most significant foreign contributors to Turkish vocabulary are Arabic, French, Persian, Italian, English, and Greek.
Nouns.
Nouns from nouns and adjectives.
The suffix "-ci" attached to a noun denotes a person involved with what is named by the noun:
The suffix "-lik" attached to a noun or adjective denotes an abstraction, or an object involved with what is named by the noun:
Nouns from verbs.
The noun in "-im" denoting an instance of action was mentioned in the introduction to Turkish grammar.
For more examples on word derivations, see the "related article: List of replaced loanwords in Turkish".
Adjectives.
Classification of adjectives.
Adjectives can be distinguished as being
For an intensive form, the first consonant and vowel of a (descriptive) adjective can be reduplicated; a new consonant is added too, "m, p, r," or "s", but there is no simple rule for which one:
The determinative adjectives, or determiners, are an essential part of the language, although Turkish takes some of its determiners from Arabic and Persian.
Demonstrative adjectives.
These are also demonstrative pronouns. Used with plural nouns, these adjectives represent the English "those" and "these"; there is no such inflexion of adjectives in Turkish.
Numerical adjectives.
The cardinal numbers are built up in a regular way from the following:
Units follow multiples of ten; powers of ten come in descending order:
The cardinals are generally not used alone, but a general word for a unit is used, such as:
Remembering that the plural suffix is not used when numbers are named, we have:
From the "cardinal" numbers, others can be derived with suffixes:
Indefinite adjectives.
The cardinal "bir" "one" can be used as an indefinite article. 
Other so-called indefinite adjectives might be listed as follows:
Adjectives from nouns.
Added to a noun, "-li" or "-siz" indicates presence or absence of what is named by the noun:
Also, "-li" indicates origin:
Finally, added to the verbal noun in "-me", the suffix "-li" creates the necessitative verb:
The pattern is 
(verb-stem) + "meli" + (personal ending).
The native speaker may perceive "-meli" as an indivisible suffix denoting compulsion; the analysis here is in #Lewis [VIII,30].
Added to a noun for a person, "-ce" makes an adjective #Lewis [IV,4]:
Adverbs.
Adjectives can generally serve as adverbs:
The adjective might then be repeated, as noted earlier. A repeated noun also serves as an adverb:
The suffix "-ce" makes nouns and adjectives into adverbs. One source [Özkırımlı, p. 155] calls it the "benzerlik" ("similarity") or "görelik" (from "göre" "according to") "eki", considering it as another case-ending.
Adverbs of place include:
These can also be treated as adjectives and nouns (in particular, they can be given case-endings).
Also, to the demonstrative pronouns "o, bu," and "şu", as well as to the interrogative pronoun "ne", the suffix "-re" can be added; treated as a noun, the result has cases serving as adverbs of place:
Postpositions.
With genitive and absolute.
The following are used after the genitive pronouns "benim", "bizim", "senin", "sizin", "onun", and "kimin", and after the absolute case of other pronouns and nouns:
For example, a certain corporation may describe its soft-drink as
However, another corporation may say of itself
Thus the label of postposition does not adequately describe "gibi"; Turkish vocabulary#Schaaik proposes calling it a predicate, because of its use in establishing similarity:
The particle "ile" can be both "comitative" and "instrumental"; it can also join the preceding word as a suffix:
here the literal translation "We spoke with Deniz" may be incorrect;
With dative.
Used after nouns and pronouns in the dative case are:
With absolute.
The following postpositions are case-forms of nouns with the third-person possessional suffix; they can be understood as forming nominal compounds, "always indefinite", with the preceding words (see also Turkish grammar#Nouns):
Interjections.
Some samples include:
Conjunctions.
Some Turkish conjunctions are borrowed from Persian and Arabic.
Logical conjunction.
The "cumulative" sense of the English "A and B" can be expressed several ways:
For the "adversative" sense of "but" or "only", there are "ama" and "fakat" (both Arabic), also "yalnız" (which is also an adjective corresponding to "alone").
For emphasis: "hem A hem B" "both A and B".
Logical disjunction.
For the sense of English "(either)…or":
The pattern of the last two can be extended:
Logical non-disjunction.
(slogan on placard at demonstration);
Implication.
Both "çünkü" and "eğer" are Persian; the latter is not generally needed, because the "conditional" form of the verb is available.
The conjunction "ki".
The Persian conjunction "ki" brings to Turkish the Indo-European style of relating ideas (#Lewis [XIII,15]):
Thus "ki" corresponds roughly to English "that", but with a broader sense:
The following is from a newspaper:
Verbs.
The verb-stem "temizle-" "make clean" is the adjective "temiz" "clean" with the suffix "-le-". Many verbs are formed from nouns or adjectives with "-le":
The suffix "-iş-" indicates reciprocal action, which is expressed in English by "each other" or "one another".
(But there are exceptions: "sevişmek" does not mean "to love one another" (from "sevmek" "to love") but rather "to make love with each other."
Many causative verbs are formed with "-dir-".
References.
Books of use in the writing of this article include:
