Amanda Lamb
Amanda Lamb (born 19 July 1972 in Portsmouth, Hampshire) is an English television presenter and former model. 
Biography.
Amanda Lamb was born in Portsmouth and was brought up in Havant, Hampshire. She now lives in London. She worked as an estate agent in Havant and part-time as a barmaid for five years before becoming a model and is currently a television presenter.
Modelling.
In 1994, she took over the role of the "Scottish Widow" in a long-running series of advertisements for the investment company, Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society. Lamb was once asked by David Bailey to glide across the screen wearing roller skates in a scene which never made it to the final cut. Lamb's final advert and her favourite was called "The Lighthouse", this contract lasted ten years.
In June 1998, she appeared in a silver bikini for "FHM".
In 2008, Lamb was picked by Ortak to model their autumn jewellery collection.[http://www.ortak.co.uk]
Television career.
In 2001, Lamb became the main presenter of the Channel 4 programme "A Place in the Sun". She also presented "Hot Shots", an Epson-funded programme shown on Discovery Real Time about digital photography which was notable as being the last television appearance of photographer Patrick Lichfield. 
She competed in the reality television show "The Games" in March 2006. Lamb then returned to filming "A Place in the Sun", in which she still appears.
She co-hosted the cookery programme "Market Kitchen" (Good Food) and regularly appears on "The Wright Stuff" (Channel 5), also on "Family Super Cooks" (Watch). 
In March 2012, she began presenting "You Deserve This House", a new Channel 4 daytime show in which the homes of 'community heroes' are secretly refurbished. She also currently presents a show on Channel 4 called "Selling Houses with Amanda Lamb".
Personal life.
Lamb was previously married but divorced in 2003. Lamb married cameraman Sean McGuinness at Babington House, Somerset, in 2012 and they have two daughters, Willow Rose (born in February 2009) and Lottie (born in July 2013).
In 2007, Lamb bought a flat in the medieval town of Nardò in the Apulia region, southern Italy.
