Nihal Atsız
Hüseyin Nihâl Atsız (Ottoman Turkish: حسين نيهال أتسز) (January 12, 1905 – December 11, 1975) was a prominent Turkish nationalist writer, novelist, poet and philosopher. Nihâl Atsız was a fervent supporter of the pan-Turkist or Turanism ideology. He is author of over 30 books and numerous articles. He was in strong opposition to the government of İsmet İnönü, which he criticized for co-operating with the communists. He was accused of plotting to overthrow the government.
Politics.
Nihâl Atsız is foremost known for his nationalist views, his active campaign against Turkish communists, and his embracing of shamanistic ancient Turkic traditions. He is among the authors that influenced the Turkish nationalist movement known as Ülkücü movement (translated as "idealist"), a nationalist movement later associated to Alparslan Türkeş (and which was a break with Atsız's previous ideology of Turkism, on the grounds that it reconciles with Islam instead of denouncing it as "Arab religion"). Atsız worked on Turkism as an ideologue and activist but never joined any party or political group because he considered politics to be a way to corruption. He and his comrades published several Turkist magazines such as "Ötüken", "Yeni Hayat" and "Orkun". He wrote strong articles which criticized the government of İsmet İnönü and his alleged tolerance of communism in the country.
The views of Nihâl Atsız concerning the Jews radically changed after 1945. In 1934, he had written that "the Jew" was among "the internal enemies of Turkey". In 1947, he praised the Jewish people for setting an example of strong nationalism (Zionism): indeed, the Jews manage "to get back the land they had lost 2,000 years ago and to revive Hebrew which has remained only in the books and turn into a spoken language." Twenty years later, after the Six-Day war, Atsız staunchly supported the Israeli point of view.
Literary work.
Atsız majored in History of Literature, and published several academic essays about Ottoman literature and history. His essays about history are gathered and published as a book under the name of "Türk Tarihinde Meseleler" (Several Issues in Turkish History). He served as a literature teacher for a number of years.
Atsız is also an important novelist and poet. His historical epic novel "Bozkurtların Ölümü" (Death of the Gray Wolves) is one of the most popular historical novels in Turkish literature. The book concerns the last days of the first Gök Türk Empire and the impossible rebellion of Prince Kür-Şad and his forty warriors against the Chinese invaders.
Its sequel "Bozkurtlar Diriliyor" (Revival of the Gray Wolves) tells the story of Urungu (the unknown son of Kür-Şad) and the beginning of the second Gök Türk Empire.
His third novel, "Deli Kurt" (Mad Wolf), is about the mystic romance between a Sipahi warrior and a mysterious shamanist nomad woman in the early Ottoman Empire.
His last novel, "Ruh Adam" (Soul Man), is quite a complex psychological novel. The book has a spiritual and mystical atmosphere, full with surrealistic, allegorical figures such as Yek (who symbolizes Satan) and Lieutenant Şeref (who symbolizes Honour). It has a complex story, which is generally about the forbidden platonic love affair between an alcoholic ex-army officer and a diabolical, mysterious young high school student. The plot develops on the reincarnation of two lovers, which was a warrior banned from the army because of his love to the girl was greater than his love to his country in ancient nomad times.
Atsız wrote one satirical political comedy about İnönü government in the 1940s, "Z Vitamini" (Vitamin Z), which was about a fictional special vitamin which gives immortality to the dictator and his government. Another politicised novel of his was "Dalkavuklar Gecesi" (Night of The Sycophants), a historical allegory, which tells the story of political corruption during the Hittite era but actually referring (in a roman de clef fashion) to the injustices and arbitrariness of Atatürk's rule during the early 1930s.
Atsız is also a famous poet. His poems are in the style of Pre-Islamic literature and his common themes are idealism, honour, forbidden love, war and history. His complete poetic works have been published under the name of "Yolların Sonu" ("End of Roads").
Personal life.
Nihal Atsız was born on January 12, 1905 at Kasımpaşa, İstanbul. His father was navy commander Mehmet Nail Bey, from Çiftçioğlu family of Torul, Gümüşhane; and his mother was Fatma Zehra, daughter of navy commander Osman Fevzi Bey, from Kadıoğlu family of Trabzon.
Nihal Atsız had two sons from his second wife Bedriye Atsız: Yağmur Atsız, a left-wing journalist and writer, and Prof. Dr. Buğra Atsız, academician and nationalist writer; he also had a daughter: Kaniye Atsız. Atsız also had a younger brother, Nejdet Sançar, also a notable writer and publicist.
Atsız dedicated his entire life to his children and especially to his most beloved granddaughter Maviş Atsiz (the daughter of Kaniye Atsiz). Nihâl Atsiz was remembered by his grand daughter as a kind and gentle person with children (in his free time he would always dedicate himself to reading and educating his grandchildren).
Influence.
19 young academicians and authors, assembled under a nationalist association "Siyah Beyaz Kültür ve Sanat Platformu", published a book on him, "Vaktiyle Bir Atsız Varmış"978-605-86024-6-5 (Once upon a time there was Atsız) inspired by his verses: ""Vaktiyle bir Atsız varmış derlerse ne hoş / anılmakla hangi bir ruh olmaz ki sarhoş?"" (If one day some say "once upon a time there was Atsız", I would be delighted / Whose soul would not be intoxicated by being remembered?), consisted of articles and comparative studies on his works, life and views.
