Mor ve Ötesi
Mor ve Ötesi (literally "Purple and Beyond"; a play on the word "", meaning ultraviolet) is a Turkish alternative rock band from Istanbul. Its four current members are Harun Tekin (vocals and rhythm guitar), Kerem Kabadayı (drums), Burak Güven (bass) and Kerem Özyeğen (lead guitar). Former members include Alper Tekin (no relation to Harun) and Derin Esmer. The band achieved mainstream success with the release of the album "Dünya Yalan Söylüyor". In 2008, the band represented Turkey in the Eurovision Song Contest in Belgrade with the song "Deli" (Insane).
History.
Mor ve Ötesi was formed in 1995 with the line-up of Kerem Kabadayı (drums), Harun Tekin (vocals & guitar), Derin Esmer (vocals & guitar) and Alper Tekin (bass), who were then students at the Deutsche Schule Istanbul. They released their first album "Şehir" ("The City") in September 1996 and played their first live concert in Ankara. That year, Burak Güven replaced Alper Tekin on bass.
"Bırak Zaman Aksın" ("Let Time Flow"), their second album was released in January 1999 to massive success. Just after its release, Derin Esmer moved to the USA and was replaced by prominent guitarist Kerem Özyeğen. After the devastating 1999 Kocaeli earthquake, Mor ve Ötesi started playing more on social and political themes. They were also very active in the opposition against the use of nuclear energy in Turkey.
In August 2001, they released their third album, "Gül Kendine" ("Smile at Yourself"). With Kerem Özyeğen, there was a noticeable change in the music, and after 17 August there was a noticeable change in lyrics. In October 2002, Mor ve Ötesi's released the "Yaz" EP, which included a cover of the Ajda Pekkan song "Yaz Yaz Yaz".
Their fourth album "Dünya Yalan Söylüyor" ("The World is Lying") was released in March 2004. The album became their most popular album in Turkey, reaching 250.000 sales. Since their previous work was not as well known, many new fans were not aware that they weren't a new band. Although this album has been their best selling album, it is not admired by their old fans as much as their previous work, and some have even seen it as "sell-out". The album contained considerable political criticism against the activities of the USA both in Iraq and the rest of the world. In the same year they received a Golden Orange Award for their single "Bir Derdim Var", included on the soundtrack of the Çağan Irmak film "Mustafa Hakkında Her Şey".
Their fifth album "Büyük Düşler" ("Great Hopes") was released on May 9, 2006. This is an album mainly dealing with the political problems of Turkey and the personal problems of the group members, including loss of family members and their relationships. It has a darker sound compared to their previous albums. This album is regarded as a homage to their old fan base and a return to a style closer to their earlier albums. Three singles were released from the album: "Şirket", "Küçük Sevgilim", and "Ayıp Olmaz Mı?". Büyük Düşler was named Best Album of the Year by Rolling Stone Turkey and Best Rock Album of the Year by Blue Jean magazine.
On December 10, 2007 TRT's general manager İbrahim Şahin announced that Mor ve Ötesi were to represent Turkey in Eurovision Song Contest 2008 with the song 'Deli'. Mor ve Ötesi finished 7th in contest, which was held in Belgrade on 22 May 2008. During the contest, BBC commentator Terry Wogan described the lead singer as "a sinister James Bond".
The band's sixth album, "Başıbozuk", was released in late 2008, and included three studio and four live tracks, including their Eurovision entry, as well as remixes.
Their seventh album "Masumiyetin Ziyan Olmaz" ("Your Innocence Won't Go To Waste") came out in 12 May 2010. The first video clip was "Yorma Kendini"
Their eighth (their seventh studio album) album "Gunesi Beklerken" was released on 17 December 2012. The first video clip was taken for "Oyunbozan".
