Association of Scouts of Azerbaijan
The Association of Scouts of Azerbaijan (), (ASA) the national Scouting organization of Azerbaijan, was founded in 1997, and became the 150th member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement on August 20, 2000. The coeducational Azərbaycan Skautlar Assosiasiyasi has 1,677 members as of 2011.
History.
ASA was founded on October 11, 1997, when Namik Jafarov, former president of the association, gathered the first members of the new movement and held the first Scout camp in Nabran. On August 20, 2000 ASA was invited to join WOSM and the Eurasia Scout Region. Branch offices exist in Shaki Rayon, Barda Rayon, Nakhchivan, Ismailli Rayon, Khachmaz Rayon, Zaqatala Rayon, Aghjabadi Rayon, Ganja, and Yevlakh Rayon.
As of 2004, there are 1,356 registered Scouts and leaders. Half of the registered Scouts live in the capital city of Baku. The remainder is spread throughout the countryside. Scouts of Azerbaijan participated in the 1998–1999 World Scout Jamboree in Chile, as well as several regional National Jamborees, and the second Eurasian Scout Conference, held in Baku in September, 2004.
Both the Scouts and the Association of Azerbaijan Girl Guides are members of the National Assembly of Youth Organizations of the Republic of Azerbaijan (NAYORA).
Ideals and program.
The Scout Motto is "Daima Hazır", "Be Prepared" in Azeri. The Azeri noun for a single Scout is "Skaut".
The Scout emblem incorporates the tricolor blue-red-green colors of the flag of Azerbaijan with two five edged stars rounded by rope and tied in a reef knot at the bottom. The Scout uniform consists of a khaki-colored shirt with shoulder straps, with adjustable sleeves, khaki-colored trousers or shorts, with a brown belt, and a tricolor blue-red-green neckerchief with a white border edge.
The Scout promise is "On my honor I promise that I will do my best, to do my duty to my community and Azerbaijan, to help other people at all times, to obey the Scout Law."
Scouting in Nagorno-Karabakh.
Scouting might also be developed in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh, but being an Armenian-controlled territory within Azerbaijan, it is unknown whether Scouts there would be aligned to Hayastani Azgayin Scautakan Sharjum Kazmakerputiun or to "Azərbaycan Skautlar Assosiasiyasi".
