How It's Made
"How It's Made" is a documentary television series that premiered on January 6, 2001 on Discovery Channel in Canada, and Science in the U.S. It's also being aired on Discovery Family. The program is produced in the Canadian province of Quebec by Productions MAJ, Inc. and Productions MAJ 2. In the UK it is broadcast on Discovery Channel, Quest, and DMAX.
Format.
The show is a documentary showing how common, everyday items (including foodstuffs like bubblegum, industrial products such as engines, musical instruments such as guitars, and sporting goods such as snowboards) are manufactured. It is filmed to simplify overdubbing in different languages. For example, the show avoids showing a narrator or host onscreen, does not often have employees of featured companies speak on camera, and keeps human interaction with the manufacturing process to a bare minimum. An off-screen narrator explains each process, often with humorous puns. Each half hour show usually has three or four main segments, with each product getting a demonstration of about five minutes; exceptions in the allotted time for more complex products. Usually, every show has at least one product with an historic background note preceding it: Showing how and where the product originated, and what people used before it. The historic note is shown through various cartoon animations being drawn on-screen by a computer program.
In April 2007, all episodes run in the United States (on the Discovery Channel and Science) had the individual season openings replaced with a new opening used for every episode. Similar to most other Discovery Channel shows, the credits now run during the last segment, with only a blue screen and the request for feedback (and the website) at the end.
In September 2007, the ninth season began airing on Science, along with new openings, graphics, and soundtracks. Zac Fine replaced Moore as the narrator. However, the eleventh season, which started airing in September 2008, reinstated Moore as the narrator and reverted to a previous title sequence and soundtrack.
In June 2008, the Science channel began airing "How It's Made: Remix", consisting of previous segments arranged into theme episodes ("Food", "Sporting Goods", etc.). In 2013, the Science channel began airing "How It's Made: Dream Cars", focusing exclusively on high performance and exotic cars.
Languages.
The show is broadcast in English on Discovery Channel and Discovery Science, and in French on Ztélé. The program is also broadcast abroad, in the United States (on Science and less frequently on the Discovery Channel), the UK (on Discovery Channel, Discovery Science, and Quest), Italy on various Discovery channels, Spain (on Discovery Channel and Discovery MAX), Norway (translated into Norwegian on Discovery Channel and Discovery Science), Poland (translated into Polish on Discovery Channel Polska and Discovery Science Channel Polska), and in India (on Discovery Science). In Germany it is broadcast on DMAX in German under the title "So wird's gemacht. The show is also broadcast under various titles: in Portuguese under the title O Segredo das Coisas, in Spanish under the title Así se hace, in French under the title Comment c'est fait, in Polish under the title Jak to jest zrobione, in Hungarian under the title Hogyan készült, in Romanian under the title Cum se fabrică, in Italian under the title Come è fatto, in Russian under the title Как это работает, in Norwegian under the title Hvordan den lages, in Finnish under the title Miten se tehtiin?, in Czech under the title Jak se to dělá, in Turkish under the title Nasıl Yapılır?, and in Bulgarian under the title Как се прави...".
UK, U.S., and international hosts.
A different voice-over track is recorded for U.S. viewers by Brooks T. Moore (Seasons 1-8, 2001–2007, 2008–present) or Zac Fine (2007–2008). The scripts are almost identical; the main difference in the versions is that the U.S. host gives units of measurement in United States customary units instead of metric units. At one point in the U.S. run, a subtitled conversion was shown on-screen over the original narration instead.
In the UK, the rest of Europe, and in some cases in Southeast Asia, the series is narrated by Tony Hirst. All episodes have been shown in the UK on the Discovery, Quest, and the Discovery Science channels.
