Yusuf Bey
Yusuf Bey (December 21, 1935 – September 30, 2003), born Joseph Stephens, was a Black Muslim activist and leader.
After discovering the teachings of Elijah Muhammed in the 1960s, he adopted the name Yusuf Bey and moved to Oakland, California, and then Santa Barbara, California, where in 1968 he opened a bakery. The bakery moved to Oakland by 1971. Renamed Your Black Muslim Bakery, it became the center of a local Black nationalist community. Held out at the time as a model of African American economic self-sufficiency, the business fell apart after Bey's death and a series of murders linked to criminal activities.
Biography.
Bey was born and raised in Greenville, Texas. As a student in the early 1950s he moved with his family to Oakland, California, where he attended Oakland Technical High School, and then enlisted for four years in the U.S. Air Force. In his first business venture he obtained a cosmetology degree and ran beauty salons in neighboring Berkeley and then in the southern city of Santa Barbara before going into the bakery business instead. Having converted to Islam in 1964, Bey founded the Islamic bakery in Santa Barbara in 1968. The group was not affiliated with Louis Farrakhan's movement, the Nation of Islam, though early connections and similarities were evident. Nation of Islam minister Keith Muhammad, of East Oakland's Muhammad Mosque #26, stated that the two organizations are distinct and separate. 
The baked goods Bey sold were, in accordance with strict Muslim diets, free of refined sugar, fats, and preservatives. He named the business Your Black Muslim Bakery on the personal recommendation of his spiritual guide, the Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad. In 1971, Bey moved the bakery to Oakland.
Black Muslim era.
Although the bakery was not affiliated with the Nation of Islam, Yusuf Bey's activism originated with that group. After he came to Oakland in the early 1970s, Bey became a member of the 200-member Nation of Islam Mosque No. 26 in San Francisco, which had a strict fundamentalist reputation of strictly adhering to the edicts from the Nation's Chicago headquarters. At that time Bey went by the name Capt. Joseph X.
Together with Bey's brother, Minister Billy X, the two men received permission to establish a new congregation, Mosque No. 26B, in Oakland. Around that time the two Bey brothers associated with a single young woman named Capt. Felicia X, who was the head of a training program for women in the San Francisco mosque. Felicia X then defected to the brothers' new Mosque No. 26B. Minister Henry Majied, the leader of Mosque No. 26, then retaliated with charges against Felicia X, sparking a bitter rivalry between the two mosques.
Part of the rivalry stemmed from competition over selling of "Muhammad Speaks" newspapers on the streets. Bey's group outsold the San Francisco group, but did it partly by selling to whites, violating the Nation's written policy to not sell where whites might buy it. Minister Henry retaliated by ordering his members to confiscate any copies of the newspaper if they saw any of Bey's group selling them downtown to whites. As a result, Elijah Muhammad expelled Minister Henry, for ordering Muslims to "attack" other Muslims.
After 1972, the Beys and the bakery split off from Mosque No. 26B, and from the Nation of Islam. Bey's brother, Minister Billy, returned to the Nation of Islam before the Million Man March in 1995. Currently, he remains active with the movement where he lives in Las Vegas, Nevada.
"Soul Beat" era.
By the mid-1980s Bey appeared regularly on a local Oakland "Soul Beat" cable television lecture program, "True Solutions", during which Bey broadcast his hour-long sermons every week on station KSBT. On the program Bey also promoted the bakery, and frequently expounded on the need for the economic self-reliance and "knowledge of self" of African-Americans, whom he lectured the audience as being the "Original Man", a racially charged idea deriving from Nation of Islam doctrine. Bey repeated the NoI doctrine of Yakub, which proposed that the non-black races were the result of a 6,000-year-old genetic experiment, in a mythic black utopia on the Arabian peninsula, which "peopled the world with "blue-eyed devils." Bey even went as far in his sermons as to proclaim repeatedly that the black man "is God," essentially avatars of Allah. The white man, Bey proclaimed, "is the Devil." 
Akbar Bey.
In 1994, Yusuf's son Akbar Bey was shot four times and killed by a local drug dealer associate outside the old Omni nightclub near the corner of Shattuck Avenue and 50th Street. Court records showed the pathologist's conclusion that Akbar Bey was high on heroin or morphine at the time of his death. An Oakland police lieutenant described Akbar Bey as "a little street thug" once seen well-armed and wearing a bullet-proof vest in a blatant show of force to the police. Three months before his killing, Akbar Bey had been charged with felony counts of carrying a concealed weapon and evading the police, resulting in a car chase and crash at 44th Street and Market Street.
Nedir and Abaz Bey.
On March 4, 1994, followers and self-proclaimed "adopted" sons of Bey (they were never legally adopted), Nedir Bey and Abaz Bey were involved in the torture and beating of a Nigerian home-seller in an apartment on the 500 block of 24th Street in Oakland, involving a real estate deal. The complex served as a compound for the Bey organization. The two Beys and two other men were charged with felony counts of assault, robbery, and false imprisonment. A year later, following a plea deal, Nedir Bey served six months of home detention, and Abaz Bey got eight months home detention.
Primarily through lobbying and orchestrating by Nedir, who was the public face of the Bey organization, Yusuf Bey cultivated the patronage of Oakland's civic, political, and religious leaders. In 1994 he ran unsuccessfully for mayor against then-incumbent Oakland Mayor Elihu Harris, gaining 5% of the vote.
Felony charges and warrant.
Yusuf Bey's detractors — notably "East Bay Express" journalist Chris Thompson — accused Bey of cultism, corruption, and Antisemitism. Many accusations of physical and sexual abuse, including rape and incest, sustained by DNA evidence, were made against Bey, culminating in felony charges that were pending at the time of his death.
Emri, tutuklanması için verilen bir sonraki yıl içine tutuksuz yargılanmak üzere edildi 14. olgunun yaş altı dört kız iddia edilen tecavüz 27 sayısı ile suçlandı zaman 19 Eylül 2002 tarihinde, Bey kendini zorlandı. eski iddiası yirmi yıl önce başlayan, o seri zorlama yoluyla tecavüz ve on yaşındaki olarak, Bey ve eşi Nora Bey'in evlatlık altına girdi, bir preteen kız dayak olmasıydı. Bir ay önce tutuklama geçici bir yasaklama emri için onun isteği ise, kadın Bey'in eşi de seri tecavüz bildiğini iddia etti, ancak hiçbir şey yapmadı. Kız babası olarak Bey'i tanımlayan kesin DNA kanıtları olduğunu iddia 1982 Oakland bölge avukatlık bürosunda 13 yaşında bir çocuk doğurdu.
Death.
On September 30, 2003, before trial began on the first case, Bey died from cancer at age 67 in Oakland, California.
Yusuf Bey IV.
Cinayet, yaygın konut ve refah dolandırıcılık, sözleşmeli kölelik, fiziksel ve cinsel istismar 2006 ve 2007 ortaya istemlerde sivil iddiaları, cezai soruşturmaların ve soruşturma raporlarının bir dizi, tüm Bey'in oğlu Yusuf Bey IV ile bağlantılı. iddia edilen kurbanlar hala yasal işlem devam ediyor. Bey IV 2011 yılında Oakland gazeteci Chauncey Bailey cinayetten suçlu bulundu.
