Sibel Tüzün
Sibel Tüzün (born 29 September 1971 in Istanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish pop/rock/jazz singer.
Life and career.
Sibel began her musical education at the TRT Istanbul Children's Choir. During her secondary school years she joined the "Youth Choir of TRT" where she met Gökçen Koray, Cenan Akın and Hikmet Şimşek.
She showed an interest in pop and rock music during her years at Beşiktaş Atatürk Anadolu Lisesi, culminating in a third place finish in a Song Contest among high-school students in Turkey.
In 1988, she enrolled in Istanbul University's famous Music Conservatory. In 1990, she entered Eurovizyon Şarkı Seçmeleri with the song Kime ne, to choose Turkey's song for Eurovision - She came 9th. In 1991, she decided to pursue a professional musical career, signing up with the "Raks Müzik" label.
Her first solo album "Ah Biz Kızlar" was released in 1992. The next year was spent on an exhaustive tour. After working with Robert Bricknell in London for a while, she returned to Turkey and released her second album, "Nefes Keser Aşklar" in 1995. This too was extremely successful, proving that her debut was no flash in the pan.
After completing a 1997 tour of Europe, Sibel started her own production company Arinna Muzik. She produced her album "Hayat Buysa Ben Yokum Bu Yolda" ("If This Is Life, I'm Not In") end released it in 1998; it contained eight songs with lyrics written by Sibel. She scored a hit with "Yine Yalnızım" in 2002.
By 2003, she released her fifth album, "Kırmızı" (Red). 
Her sixth album, "Kıpkırmızı" ("Crimson") which included Greek versions and remixes of songs of "Kırmızı".
Sibel Tüzün represented Turkey at the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 which was held in Athens with the song "Süper Star" ("Superstar"). She also recorded English and Greek versions of the song.
Discography.
Albums.
COMPILATIONS
Şarkılar Bir Oyundur (2000) / Duyuyor musun?
Zilli Perküsyon (2008) /Kaçın Kurrası
Çılgın Dersane Kampta Soundtrack (2008) /Gözyaşındayım
Şimdi 90'lar (2010) /Kaçın Kurrası
