Hadise
Hadise Açıkgöz (born 22 October 1985), is a Belgian singer of Turkish descent. Hadise's career began in 2004 with the release of her debut single "Sweat", which peaked at 19 on the Flanders chart. Hadise continued to release more successful singles, most notably the single "Milk Chocolate Girl". Hadise's debut album, which was released in 2005 earned Hadise her first TMF award in Belgium and a "Altın Kelebek" Award (En. "Golden Butterfly" Award) in Turkey.
Hadise's follow up album "Hadise", was released and promoted in both the artist's native country and Turkey. The album produced two successful singles, "A Good Kiss" and "My Body", this earned Hadise her second TMF Award in the "Best Urban Act" category. It was during this time that Hadise became the presenter of the Belgium version of The X Factor.
In 2009, Hadise represented Turkey at the Eurovision Song Contest with the song "Düm Tek Tek". The song gained a total of 177 points, which placed Turkey fourth in the final. "Düm Tek Tek" was the first single from Hadise's third album "Fast Life", released in May 2009. Hadise's first Turkish studio album, "Kahraman" (En. Hero), was released in late June 2009 in Turkey.
Musical career.
Early life.
Hadise was born in the city of Mol, Located near the town Antwerp, in Belgium on 22 October 1985. Her father and her mother, emigrated to Belgium from Sivas, Turkey. Açıkgöz grew up with older sister, Hulya, younger sister Derya and also a younger brother named Murat, her name was chosen by one of her grandparents, having originally being intended for her older sister. When Hadise was 11, her parents separated.
"Idool".
Açıkgöz's passion for music began since her childhood. She grew up studying economics and modern languages, where she is fluent in five languages, Turkish, Dutch, French, German and English At the age of 17, Hadise entered for the show "Idool" in 2003, the Flemish version of "Pop Idol", which aired in 2003, although she didn't qualify for the finals, her appearance was acknowledged by her soon to be manager Johan Hendrickx, when she received a call from Hendrickx, who explained how impressed he was with her performance on the show and offered her an album contract.
2005–2006: Sweat.
After signing to 2 Brain records, Hadise recorded her debut single "Sweat", which was released in November 2004. Although a music video wasn't shot for the single, the song managed to peak at No. 19 on the Ultratop 50 singles chart. She later released the single "Stir Me Up" which gained popularity in both Belgium and Turkey, where the song became a huge hit in the summer of 2006. Hadise then released her single "Milk Chocolate Girl", the biggest hit from her debut album, which peaked at No. 13 on the Ultratop 50. A year after releasing her debut single, in November 2005, Hadiseing this time when Hadise took on her first presenting role on the Turkish singing contest "Popstars", which was a huge success for her as the programme attracted an average audience of twenty million viewers every week.
2008: "Hadise".
The self-titled, was originally intended to be named "On High Heels", referring to the fact that she has grown enormously in her professional career and knowledge. Hadise began to work on her second studio album in December 2007. The album was recorded in several countries, including Belgium, France, Turkey and Italy. The lead single, "A Good Kiss", was released in October 2007. This became her sixth consecutive single to chart on the Belgian "Ultratop 50". The song was also successful in Turkey, where it became her first single to chart on the "Turkish Billboard Chart". The song was later translated into Turkish by singer Sezen Aksu, it become one of the most played songs in clubs in the summer of 2008. In Turkish, subsequently the single managed to peak at 3 on the Turkish Charts. She released two more singles in Belgium "My Body", which is her best-selling single in Belgium, until the release of "Düm Tek Tek", and "My Man and the Devil on His Shoulder", her first single not to chart on the Ultratop 50 chart. Also the song "My Body" became popular in the Balkan countries and started airing at the Bulgarian Balkanika TV's playlist.
"Hadise" has become the most successful album of Hadise's career so far, as it was the first album to enter the Belgium Album chart, at 19, it was the first album of Hadise's to be released onto iTunes.
In 2008, Açıkgöz appeared on Serdar Ortaç's album "Nefes" on a track called "Düşman". In July 2008, Hadise revealed that she met Kevin Federline during her trip to the USA and told the media that he had produced some music for her to use on a future album.
A new video has surfaced of Hadise telling Belgian viewers that her future album will include urban beats and some of the producers and choreographers have worked with Britney Spears, Justin Timberlake, Alicia Keys and many more artists that are big in the game.
From October 2008, Hadise presented the Flemish version of "X-factor".
Due to leaked images of Hadise being affectionate with a male model, the music video "Deli Oğlan" generated controversy amongst those who considered the images to be 'racy' or 'erotic'. Hadise later removed these scenes from the video because of a disagreement with the male model.
Fast Life (2009).
Açıkgöz had revealed that she had begun work on her third studio album, titled Fast Life, on her official MySpace page, during her preparation for the Eurovision Song Contest. The album was released 15 May, a day prior to the Eurovision final. The is the first album of Hadise's to contain all English tracks. The album features Hadise's Eurovision entry "Düm Tek Tek" along with the two other songs Hadise presented TRT to enter the Eurovision Song Contest with, "Double Life" and "Supernatural Love".
After the release of her number one single "Düm Tek Tek", Hadise released the follow-up single "Fast Life", which is based on her lifestyle during her Eurovision experience. The single was released on 15 June 2009, along with a music video.
Kahraman (2009).
Just over a month after the release of "Fast Life", Hadise officially released her first Turkish-language album, called "Kahraman", on 19 June 2009. She collaborated with producers Sinan Akçıl, the producer of her Eurovision entry song "Düm Tek Tek", who also produced most of the album. Volga Tamöz and Erdem Kınay also helped working on some tracks. Like her album "Fast Life", this album also features Hadise's Eurovision entry "Düm Tek Tek", along with the other two prossible songs, "Double Life" and "Supernatural Love", which were presented TRT. The tracks "Sirada" and "Kahraman" are the Turkish translation of Hadise's songs, from her album "Fast Life", "On Top" and "Hero" respectively.
"Evlenmeliyiz" (Turkish for "We Should Get Married") was released as the lead single and was released in July 2009, and has so far reached the top 40 in Turkey. This will be the second Turkish single from Hadise to have a music video. The album also contains her single "Düm Tek Tek" along with the other two songs Hadise presented TRT to enter the Eurovision Song Contest with, these were "Double Life" and "Supernatural Love".
Aşk Kaç Beden Giyer? (2011).
After her successful tour Hadise began to working on her second Turkish Album "Ask Kac Beden Giyer" with the first single "Superman" – the albums was released on 11 April 2011. The album quickly became a huge success in Turkey, with three singles released. The lead single "Superman" quickly began gaining airplay in Turkey, The two following singles "Ask Kac Beden Giyer" and "Mesajimi almistir o" were also huge commercial successes. One of the main reasons for Hadise's massive success in 2011–2012 was her role as judge on the Turkish TV show titled "O ses Turkiye" (Turkish version of "The Voice").
Tavsiye (2012 – present).
On 11 June 2012, Hadise released a single titled "Biz Burdayız", which will serve as the lead single for her upcoming studio album. Besides the official version, a remix version of "Biz Burdayız" has also been released, featuring English vocals by rapper Kaan.
Hadise's next studio album is expected to be released in the early months of 2013. In a previous interview, Hadise stated that the album would feature anthems of self-empowerment.
Hadise also remained a judge on O Ses Türkiye for its second season, which commended 1 October 2012.
Eurovision 2009.
Although Hadise said in 2007 that she would never take part in the Eurovision Song Contest after her best friend Kate Ryan failed to qualify for the final, and because the Eurovison contestants in Belgium are chosen through pre-selections, Hadise announced in 2008 she would like to take part in the contest representing Turkey and on 24 October 2008 Hadise was confirmed as the Turkish representative at the Eurovision Song Contest in 2009. She had been the favourite to represent Turkey as she has won numerous online polls. In late October İbrahim Şahin, the general manager of Turkish broadcaster TRT announced that Hadise had won the poll held by TRT to determine the act to represent Turkey and they therefore had chosen Hadise.
The music video for "Dum Tek Tek", the Eurovision entry for Turkey, was leaked on the internet, and again the video was labelled as being too erotic, and was thought to be the reason why TRT didn't release the video; however Hadise's manager Süheyl Atay denied these claims.
Selection.
Hadise had complete control over the production of the song for the Eurovision Song Contest. Açıkgöz decided the lyricist, composer, producer and the language of the song – English and as revealed by the Turkish newspaper "Sabah", Hadise eventually presented three songs to TRT, which then chose the entry internally.
Açıkgöz told Belgian newspapers she wanted to represent Turkey instead of Belgium because she has already won many Belgian awards and also because the Eurovision Song Contest isn't popular in Belgium anymore, whereas it is in Turkey. She also said that she preferred to represent Turkey as it was an internal selection rather than a public voting.
Television career.
In 2006, Hadise presented "", a programme with twenty million viewers a week.
In 2008–2009, she got a job as a presenter for the first time in her birth country, Belgium. She was the presenter of the second season of X Factor (Belgium) at Vtm. Although it was her first television job in Belgium, Hadise garnered much praise. She handled a critical moment when Maurice Engelen, one of the judges, left the contest during a live television cast. Hadise was also praised by the candidats of X Factor for guiding them. From 2011–present, Hadise is working as one of the judges of the Turkish version of singing competition show "The Voice".
Musical influences.
Hadise has said she admires artists such as Shakira, Jennifer Lopez, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Janet Jackson, Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey and Prince (musician). Hadise's songs have also clearly been influenced by Turkish music, making her songs rather unique, as it fuses R&B and Turkish pop. Examples of songs by her combining a strong Turkish slant with an Urban feel include "Stir Me Up", "Bad Boy", "A Good Kiss" and "Don't Ask". Many people have compared Hadise to American R&B singer Beyoncé Knowles. People in Turkey affectionately call her Turkey's world star.
Other ventures.
Products and endorsements.
It was announced that Hadise signed a deal with 'Yedigun', a Turkish Soda company for a promotional deal, which includes her featuring in TV commercials, on Billboards and taking part in a summer tour.
In the Turkish city of Antalya, there is a women's hair salon named after Hadise.
Philanthropy.
Hadise, along with many other artists, performed for a Cancer research concert in Belgium. Hadise was the opening act for the event and the concert ended up raising 1.6 million Euros.
In September 2009, Hadise donated her time in support of the "Schools without Bullying" campaign in Belgium. During a press conference held by the organization, Hadise explained how as a child she "was bullied for her cloths" and even "because of her origin". Hadise explained that she wanted to be part of the project because she loves children and having been a graduate herself, she understands how there is no place for bullying.
Personal life.
Hadise is known for being secret about her personal life, especially when it's about her romantic relationships. She has been named "a loyal girlfriend" by several magazines, as she has never spoken out about any of her relationships.
Rumors began to surface that Hadise was dating her producer Sinan Akçıl. The reports were confirmed on 7 July 2009, when photos of them leaked on the internet hugging and holding hands together.
She is a Besiktas supporter.
Discography.
EP.
"* Deluxe Edition was scheduled for a 2006 release."
Filmography.
Hadise has rejected two offers to star in a film. One of the parts was the leading role in a Turkish movie. Not much is known about this film, apart from the fact that the film supposedly focused on 2 sisters, one of whom was to be played by Hadise. In July 2008 Hadise was again offered a role in a Turkish comedy film.
Hadise voiced Sonia in Turkish dubbing version of film Hintçe Android Shekhar have speak and singing role.
International fans.
Hadise is famous globally, she has a huge number of fans in Iran, Azerbaijan Republic, Belgium and other countries of middle east. Iranians created a page for her on Facebook and it is available in Persian and Turkish language.
