Optic nerve
The optic nerve, also known as cranial nerve II, is a paired nerve that transmits visual information from the retina to the brain. The optic nerve is derived from optic stalks during the seventh week of development and is composed of retinal ganglion cell axons and glial cells. In humans, the optic nerve extends from the optic disc to the optic chiasm and continues as the optic tract to the lateral geniculate nucleus, pretectal nuclei, and superior colliculus. 
Structure.
The optic nerve is the second of twelve paired cranial nerves and the only one to be considered part of the central nervous system, as it is derived from an out-pouching of the diencephalon (optic stalks during embryonic development. As a consequence, the fibers are covered with myelin produced by oligodendrocytes, rather than Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system, and are encased within the meninges. Peripheral neuropathies like Guillain-Barré syndrome do not affect the optic nerve.
optik sinir her üç meningeal katmanları (dura, araknoid ve pia mater) ziyade epinöriyum, perinevrine içinde ensheathed edilir ve endonöriyum periferik sinirler bulunur. (Periferal sinir sisteminin karşıt olarak), memelilerin merkezi sinir sistemi lif yollarının nedenle, optik sinir hasarı geri dönüşümsüz körlük üretir, yenilenme yeteneğinde ve benzerleridir. hangi büyük bir röle girişi birincil görsel korteks içine beynin dokuz ilköğretim görsel çekirdekler, optik sinir boyunca koşmak retinadan lifler.
The optic nerve is composed of retinal ganglion cell axons and glial cells. 
Each human optic nerve contains between 770,000 and 1.7 million nerve fibers, which are axons of the retinal ganglion cells of one retina. In the fovea, which has high acuity, these ganglion cells connect to as few as 5 photoreceptor cells; in other areas of retina, they connect to many thousand photoreceptors. 
The optic nerve leaves the orbit (eye socket) via the optic canal, running postero-medially towards the optic chiasm, where there is a partial decussation (crossing) of fibres from the temporal visual fields (the nasal hemi-retina) of both eyes. The proportion of decussating fibers varies between species, and is correlated with the degree of binocular vision enjoyed by a species. Most of the axons of the optic nerve terminate in the lateral geniculate nucleus from where information is relayed to the visual cortex, while other axons terminate in the pretectal nucleus and are involved in reflexive eye movements. Other axons terminate in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and are involved in regulating the sleep-wake cycle. Its diameter increases from about 1.6 mm within the eye to 3.5 mm in the orbit to 4.5 mm within the cranial space. The optic nerve component lengths are 1 mm in the globe, 24 mm in the orbit, 9 mm in the optic canal, and 16 mm in the cranial space before joining the optic chiasm. There, partial decussation occurs, and about 53% of the fibers cross to form the optic tracts. Most of these fibres terminate in the lateral geniculate body.
From the lateral geniculate body, fibers of the optic radiation pass to the visual cortex in the occipital lobe of the brain. In more specific terms, fibers carrying information from the contralateral superior visual field traverse Meyer's loop to terminate in the lingual gyrus below the calcarine fissure in the occipital lobe, and fibers carrying information from the contralateral inferior visual field terminate more superiorly, to the cuneus.
Function.
The optic nerve transmits sensory information regarding brightness perception, red-green color perception, contrast (visual acuity), and visual fields. The optic nerve contains special somatic afferent sensory fibers.
The eye's blind spot is a result of the absence of photoreceptors in the area of the retina where the optic nerve leaves the eye.
Clinical significance.
Examination.
There are four components to the examination of the optic nerve:
Disease.
Damage to the optic nerve typically causes permanent and potentially severe loss of vision, as well as an abnormal pupillary reflex, which is diagnostically important. The type of visual field loss will depend on which portions of the optic nerve were damaged. In general:
Injury to the optic nerve can be the result of congenital or inheritable problems like Leber's Hereditary Optic Neuropathy, glaucoma, trauma, toxicity, inflammation, ischemia, infection (very rarely), or compression from tumors or aneurysms. By far, the three most common injuries to the optic nerve are from glaucoma, optic neuritis (especially in those younger than 50 years of age), and anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (usually in those older than 50).
Glaucoma is a group of diseases involving loss of retinal ganglion cells causing optic neuropathy in a pattern of peripheral vision loss, initially sparing central vision.
Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve. It is associated with a number of diseases, the most notable one being multiple sclerosis.
Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy is a particular type of infarct that affects patients with an anatomical predisposition and cardiovascular risk factors.
Optic nerve hypoplasia is the underdevelopment of the optic nerve causing little to no vision in the affected eye.
Ophthalmologists and optometrists can detect and diagnose some optic nerve diseases but, those sub-specialists that are neuro-ophthalmologists, are often best suited to diagnose and treat diseases of the optic nerve.
The International Foundation for Optic Nerve Diseases (IFOND) sponsors research and information on a variety of optic nerve disorders and may provide general direction.
Regeneration.
The optic nerve does not regenerate after transection, however advancements in neurodegenerative sciences have demonstrated the ability to encourage optic nerve regeneration.
