Ablative case
In grammar, ablative case (abbreviated ) is a grammatical case (a type of noun inflection) in various languages that is used generally to express motion away from something, although the precise meaning may vary by language. The name "ablative" derives from the Latin "ablatus", the (irregular) perfect passive participle of "auferre" "to carry away". There is no ablative case in Germanic languages.
Indo-European languages.
Latin.
The ablative case in Latin ("ablativus") has various uses, including following various prepositions, in an ablative absolute clause, and adverbially. The ablative case was derived from three Proto-Indo-European cases: ablative (from), instrumental (with), and locative (in/at).
Greek.
In Ancient Greek, there was no ablative case; some of its functions were taken by the genitive and others by the dative; the genitive had functions belonging to the Proto-Indo-European genitive and ablative cases. The genitive case with the prepositions ἀπό "apó" "away from" and ἐκ/ἐξ "ek/ex" "out of" is an example.
Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian.
As in Ancient Greek, the functions of the ablative case in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian are performed by the genitive case. Of three forms of genitive in Serbian, as well in Croatian and Bosnian, namely partitive, possessive and ablative, the noun in the ablative genitive marks the origin of something, so as departure or detachment from it.
Albanian.
The ablative case is found in Albanian where it is the fifth case and is called "rasa rrjedhore".
Sanskrit.
The ablative case, known as "apādāna" (अपादान) in Sanskrit, is the fifth case ("panchami") in the grammar, and has similar function to that of Latin.
Sanskrit nouns in this case often refer to a subject "out of" which or "from" whom something (an action, an object) has arisen or occurred—e.g., "patram vṛkṣāt patati" "the leaf falls from the tree".
This case is also used for nouns in several other senses, e.g., where the action occurs "because of" or "without" a certain noun; nouns indicating distance or direction. When it appears with a comparative adjective, e.g. "śreṣṭhatamam," "the best," the ablative is used to refer to that which the adjective is comparing, "better than X".
Armenian.
In the Western Armenian language, the ablative case is rendered by the suffix "-e" (indefinite) or "-en" (definite).
In Eastern Armenian, the suffix "-its" is used for both definite and indefinite nouns.
"Mard-" man 
"Mardits-" from man
"Toon-" house 
"T'nits-" from house
Both suffixes derive from Classical Armenian. The Western suffix "-e" is from the Classical singular and the Eastern suffix "-its" is from the Classical plural; both have been generalized for singular and plural in the dialects that use them.
In Armenian, the ablative case has several uses.
Uralic languages.
Finnish.
In Finnish, the ablative case is the sixth of the locative cases with the meaning "from, off, of", e.g. "pöytä – pöydältä" "table – off from the table". It is an outer locative case, used just as the adessive and allative cases to denote both being on top of something and "being around the place" (as opposed to the inner locative case, the elative, which means "from out of" or "from the inside of"). In the locative meaning, the receding object was near the other place or object, not inside it.
The Finnish ablative is also used in time expressions to indicate start times (e.g. "kymmeneltä" "at ten") as well as with verbs expressing feelings or emotions.
The Finnish ablative has the ending "-lta" or "-ltä" according to the regular rules of vowel harmony.
Hungarian.
The ablative case in Hungarian is used to describe movement away from a solid object. For example, if one is walking away from a friend one could say: 
"a barátomtól jövök" - I am coming (away from) my friend.
Use of this case implies movement from "next to" the solid object, and not from inside it. So "a postától jövök" would mean one had been standing "next to" the post office, and not inside the building.
The application of vowel harmony gives two different suffixes: -tól and -től. These are applied to back- and front-vowel words respectively.
In contrast, the cases used to express movement towards a solid object and for being next to that solid object are the allative case and the adessive case respectively. The cases for movement away from, or out of, something are the delative case (for movement from a surface or from a Hungarian city) and the elative case (for movement out of a container or from out of a foreign city).
Turkic languages.
Azeri.
The ablative in Azeri ("") is expressed through the suffixes "-dan" or "-dən". Examples:
Ev - evdən
<br>"House - from/off the house"
Aparmaq - aparmaqdan
<br>"To carry - from/off carrying"
Turkish.
The ablative in Turkish ("-den hali" or "uzaklaşma hali") is expressed through the suffixes "-den", "-dan", "-ten", or "-tan". Examples:
Ev - evden
<br>"House - from/off the house"
At - attan
<br>"Horse - from/off the horse"
Taşımak - taşımaktan
<br>"To carry - from/off carrying"
Ses - sesten
<br>"Sound/volume - from/off sound/volume"
In some situations simple ablative can have a ”because of” meaning, in these situations ablative can be optionally followed by ”dolayı” (because of) preposition.
Yüksek sesten (dolayı) rahatsız oldum. / "I was uneasy because of high volume. "
