Turgutreis
Turgutreis (formerly the village of Karatoprak, before being renamed in 1972 in honor of the Turkish seaman Turgut Reis who was born here in 1485) is a town in Turkey about a 60 minute drive from Bodrum International Airport. It is the second largest town on the Bodrum peninsula and is part of that district, in Muğla. Has an area of 55,000 Hectare. Turgutreis is 20 kilometers from Bodrum, and is spread throughout a rich valley well planted with orchards and vegetable gardens, making the town a centre for commerce on the western side of the peninsula. Produce from the surrounding villages are collected here for transport. The town is a popular holiday destination with its 5 kilometres of sandy beaches, waterfront restaurants and bars. The market on Saturday also attracts many Holiday goers from surrounding areas and is a very busy and bustling example of middle east with a western touch. The market owners take Euros, British Sterling and the Turkish Lira. Although most items are fake they are still a cheap alternative to the expensive originals. Haggling is a must as most Bazaars in the world.
There are mostly hotels and holiday homes peppered along the coast line but there is evidence of more production of homes. 
The town is named after the Ottoman admiral Turgut Reis who was born there in 1485. Also known as Dragut, Turgut Reis was famous for his expeditions on the coasts of Spain, France, Italy, and North Africa, and for his participation in the Ottoman siege of Malta. Where he died during that battle. A few kilometres outside the town center, in Sabanci Park, a waterfront memorial with his statue marks the place where he first set sail.
The coastline consists of several inlets, with steep mountains running parallel to the coast. There are 14 Turkish islands around Turgutreis including Küçük Kiremit, Büyük, Fener, Çatal, Yassı, Tüllüce, Kargı, Köçek, Kadıkalesi, and Sarıat, as well as the Greek islands Kos and Kalimnos. The coast and the sea around the islands is littered with wrecks that are the source of artifacts on display at the Bodrum Museum.
The area has a marina which was built several years ago. You can get a ferry to Kos, which is 45 minutes journey and costs €17 return, only valid for one day.
